54UETKa - Update... I never gave her this letter && we haven't gone
out again.  Funny that I got all wrapped up so quickly then unraveled
just as quickly.  I also am back into enjoying real women pictured in
porn instead of just fantasy cartoons && CG.  Hopefully I'll find a
great girl for me someday.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Hello Tiffany,

  I guess this is not some sort of romantic love-letter or any sweet
poetry or anything... which you'll probably be happy about considering
your expressed opposition to traditional courtship attention. This is
not all fluffy && flowerly like poetry stuff... but it has taken time &&
attention to craft && it may warrant similar appreciation. Maybe it's a
practical love-letter. I'm not trying to convince you I'm interested in
you or deserve your attention with merely adjectives describing the
seasons in rhyming stanzas. I am writing this to address some of the
worthwhile issues you brought up over our lunch last weekend. By the
way, thank you for that. I enjoyed it && hope we can share a meal &&
candid conversation again soon.

  Hmm... well first of all, if you do not find me attractive at all,
either physically or intellectually, then please let me know... && I'm
sorry to have bothered you. I'm glad to be friends if that is all you
desire. Also, if that's the case, you don't need to read the rest of
this message as it presumes you do have a growing interest in me.

  So then, if you are attracted to me or are at least intrigued && may
develop a deeper interest, I would like to assuage your concerns as
well as I am able. I have had some time to consider what you said &&
how you acted... I have reflected on it && think I'm ready to answer.
Some of the points overlap but I'll try to recap my recollection
before espousing a response. Before I begin though, I'd like to warn
you that it's probably best to read the remainder of this letter in a
private place when you have plenty of time to yourself. I don't mean
to insult you but you may also want to have a dictionary or thesaurus
close-at-hand. Language is both beautiful && powerful.

  I heard you say that basically you don't like flowers, don't like to
be called "beautiful" (regardless of truth), you probably don't like
Valentine's Day, && you don't like guys spending all their money or
maybe just too much money (ie. what you think they can't afford) on
you... all of this because guys "expect" things. To be explicit, most
guys obviously do "expect" to get fucked after they spend enough time &&
money on a girl. You're being totally reasonable to be wary of such
engagements since most guys do see it as an obligation... they've
purchased your attention or more basely, they want to be directly buying
the sexual services you're perceived to be capable of offering. There
are several important points here so let me address them in the order
that seems most appropriate.

  First: In case it wasn't glaringly obvious already, I am not a normal
guy. So when you think a normal guy "expects" something for the flowers
he bought you or the fact that he said you are beautiful or that he paid
for whatever... that "expectation" doesn't apply to me. It is a
difficult thing to prove other than by building trust over time but I
can do it rapidly if you can follow my reasoning && respond to my
impassioned genuineness. If/when I do any of the things above (flowers,
"beautiful", etc.) for you, it is because I have "hopeful anticipation"
for you. I don't see any obligation or expectation. I only hope that you
will give me a chance to get to know you more thoroughly && that you
will be interested in me enough to do the same. True generosity is given
without expectation. There is no obligation. That is how you should see
any time or money I spend on you.

  As an interesting side note: it's pretty ironic that you "expect" me
to be like other guys. I can't blame you for that... because, after all,
I do bear a great deal of resemblance to them =). Trust me that I try
very hard not to "expect" anything. I only "hope" that you will be
attracted to me as I am to you. That is the only thing that is
meaningful to me. If it were not, I would simply purchase prostitutes
but I have never done that. I care about tremendously more than mere
orgasms. I can do that for myself easily. I am a passionate man && long
to find love... with a great girl.

  So then on to the Second point: I do want to fuck. I am a man. Maybe I
am too forward... too honest... but I'd rather be honest than lie. I
find you physically attractive. I would like to sleep with you. That is
true... however, that does not mean I would do it if you don't like who
I am... if we don't connect intellectually... if we don't make good
friends as we get to know each other better. I have a natural normal
powerful sex drive. I am in control of it. I am able to exercise it when
the time is right (both for me && my hypothetical girlfriend). I do not
make a habit of sleeping with anyone or anything so don't make the
mistake of thinking that just because you're fine to me, that means I'll
have sex with you. I am not that simple. I have never had a relationship
shorter than many months && I don't ever want a short meaningless one.
You have adequate justification to be wary && afraid that almost any
guy would fuck you given any opportunity. I am not a member of that
group. I would not have sex with you unless you cared for me deeply.
You will understand this profoundly if you can keep up with this letter
&& take time to get to know me more. Yes... I am challenging you. Are
you my match?

  Third: I am a responsible adult.  You need not worry about my spending
habits... although because I'm interested in you, I value your opinion
&& am glad to hear it. I have, in my mind, given you permission to care
about what I spend my money on (which is why I let you pay the bill for
lunch) but you can trust that I am able to handle it on my own if you
would rather not concern yourself with it. You said that you had an ex-
boyfriend who was totally cheap && wouldn't spend any money on himself
&& only ever spent all of his money on you... then he asked for money
back afterwards or somesuch. Trust that I manage my money as well as I
care to... I spend money on myself... heh sometimes too much =)... but
know that nobody forces me to spend money on you. When I offer to pay
for you, it is because I am able && I want to. I am a generous man
(without expectation) && I enjoy sharing with people I care about. I am
beginning to care about you as a friend && a potential girlfriend. This
is my response.

Thank you for reading.  Let's get together again sometime soon.

your friend who is romantically interested in you,
-Pip

ps. I've had second thoughts about attending Castro on Hallow's Eve.
I'm sorry to renege on something I said I would do but... after lunch,
when we went to your car, the thought of sex with you in your costume
overcame me with lustful excitement for that moment. It's worth noting
that I have exercised restraint in not acting on that && I am now
correcting it. The truth is, I would be quite uncomfortable on Castro
because I prefer private sensual sex. I don't mind that other people
want to expose && celebrate their sexuality in public as part of
festivals but I prefer a more personal, more intimate interaction.
Additionally, I prefer to only see my girlfriend's nude body. I
typically avoid watching porn with human actresses. I prefer Nipponese
(Japanese) hentai (porn cartoons) or virtual 3D (like video game babe)
porn because those are purely fantasy && more comfortable to me when I
just need an orgasm to get the edge off. When I look into the eyes of a
woman I love && make love to, it is dramatically meaningful to me. I
don't want to look into any woman's eyes while I approach orgasm unless
she knows me && I know her. I'd rather not be aroused by other women
than the one I love because I am a loyal man of integrity. I suspect
there aren't many men or women like me anymore who would choose to stay
relatively sexually pure as our society becomes more accepting of non-
traditional sexual relationships. I think the common justification for
monogamy today seems to be more about possession... like some guy owns
his girl && she owns her man so nobody else can touch them. I have a
different outlook that faithfulness && trust are pure && meaningful
apart from any concept of ownership. Trust makes me happier && more
fulfilled than some modernized version of slavery, so I constantly hope
to find someone who understands. I guess you could say I'm weird && old-
fashioned that way but I don't begrudge people who sleep around. They
should be free to do that just as I should be free to be discerning.
Girls aren't the only ones who choose their sexual partners... although
most guys are too dumb or lack the self control required to do it at
all. I've had several girls cheat on me even though I haven't ever
cheated && I hope I never will. It sucks but I keep trying to find
someone to love who will love me the same... faithfully, with trust. I
don't know that you're a good candidate but I'm trying to find out. If
you've ever cheated on any of your boyfriends, I can probably rule you
out && leave you alone. Anyway, I hope I've explained why you don't have
to be afraid of me... well I guess unless you really want a guy who will
mistreat you. Then I might pose an interesting dilemma for you.
Do you know what you want?

pps. Remember how you explained that you like routine... like In-N-Out
work or getting ready to leave the house?... well I am a systematic
geek. I like routine too. I think && walk && talk like a passionate
logical nutball. To you, I imagine this letter probably comes as an
overdose of my routine. Again, I don't want to scare you away unless
we're wrong for each other anyway. We both should evaluate that until
one of us is certain the other is wrong. The way my mind works, I get
carried away && do it too much. I think about all the details && angles
&& agonize over things so much that I'm meticulous && scary to most
people. Even when I want to stop... when it would make sense to stop
because we don't know each other that well, I continue on as I'm doing
now. I apologize if I scare you. That is of course not my intention. I
am a weirdo. I see how complicated && beautiful I am, life is, && the
world, women, loyalty, etc. there's so much stunning beauty everywhere.
It is just how I am to participate && observe && ponder the facets of
life. Do you know that you are beautiful?


Summary (by analogy since that's a bit more fun):
Meow Tif,
  Question 0) Do you like me?
If not, sorry to have ever slobbered on you.
If so,
  I'm not a depraved horndog.
  I'm still a dog though.
  I'm a good (but effusive) dog.
  Most dogs aren't good like me.
  I clean up after myself, am loyal, housebroken, && well-behaved.
  I deserve a clean water dish && good food && to be petted often.
  Question 1) Do you know what kind of dog you want?
  Question 2) Do you know what a fine feline you are?

-Pip  *woof*

4ARACWs - I am not going to send this.  It's way too crazy. =) Tone it
down Pepper.

4AUH4Mx - Tiffany doesn't warrant this much attention anyway.
