Hello Inga,                                                    518ARhA

  I've been thinking about our... well situation... or predicament.
Following are my thoughts on everything.  Please consider them if you
are so inclined.

  I think you && I are developing a nice relationship.  We have not
known each other long but I think we could grow to become much closer.
I know that I am profoundly attracted to you.  I like the sound of
your voice.  I like the things you say.  I'm physically attracted to
you as well.  It appears to me that you reciprocate... yet we don't
have much foundation or history to rely on.  Things are pretty new.

  This other guy, your ex, is still hanging on.  You were high school
sweethearts && were together for a decade.  That's a pretty big deal
&& a significant percentage of each of your lives.  As I understand it,
you broke up with this guy about 3 months ago && moved back to Cali.
He doesn't want to let you go.  He's claiming he wants to move here &&
get a job && rekindle whatever it is that you two had.  You're
skeptical but probably also hopeful.  Maybe some of the magic of your
relationship with this guy is gone but you still miss it && him.  You
still count him a close friend.  You let him stay at your place && go
to the pretty romantic vacation spot of Big Sur with him for the
weekend.  I don't know how long he's staying at your place or how many
other weekend getaways you have planned but it seems that you're
welcoming him pretty warmly.

  Maybe I'm off a little or I'd be helped if you would fill me in
further but with what I've seen, you were rather eager to have me join
you && him for dinner last Wednesday or for us to meet at your place
as we did on Thursday.  This encounter was totally inconsiderate of
you.  Of course that would be a harsh situation for all three of us.
Maybe you were naive && thought that we could all be happy friends or
something silly like that but you && he have too much tension &&
history for me to feel comfortable && if he wants you back && you're
rubbing in his face that you're dating me... well that's gotta put
him off too.  It comes down to you figuring out what you want &&
dealing with it responsibly.  It's much harder to get what you want if
you don't know what it is.

  Whatever it is you want, I feel like you're using me as a tool to
those ends but you're not being clear to me as to which ends those are.
Maybe I wouldn't mind being your instrument if you were clear what you
hoped to accomplish && why.  The problem is that you've got mixed
messages.  You say that you're over this guy... you're just friends...
you just broke up because he wouldn't move here... now he's here...
claiming he's getting a job && moving here... staying at your house for
at least a week... maybe sleeping with you (not that I'd hold that
against you)... going on a weekend getaway together.

  So which is it?  Do you need an excuse to get away from this guy &&
you want to use me as it?  Do you need an excuse to make him jealous
so that he proves with greater conviction than ever before that he
loves you completely && you two can get back together happily?  I don't
know what you want so I'm rather disconcerted by how you're choosing
to handle me now.  I'm trying to give you the benefit-of-the-doubt.
You are probably confused && frustrated yourself... && may not be doing
any of this consciously... or rather on purpose.

  Well now I'm telling you:  It would be good if you would make up your
mind.  If you are over this old guy because as long && as good as your
relationship with him was, it can't satisfy you anymore && it's time to
move on... if that's the case then break it off.  You can't have a nice
plutonic friendship with someone who is in love with you.  You need time
&& space apart to come to terms with the shape of a new relationship
that is smaller && more humble than what you both have grown accustomed
to.  You've gotta boot this guy out of your house && tell him you still
like him && care about him... which is why you need to be apart to drive
home that you don't want romance with him anymore.  As long as he
doesn't get that, your friendship will be a strained tug-of-war which
frustrates both of you.  If, on the other hand, you want this guy back
but maybe you just want him to suffer for a while or something... want
to make him prove something...  want to see him squirm... I don't
know... just figure that out && tell me so that at least I can decide
whether I can be comfortable && confident in the role you've put me in.
Maybe I could come whisk you away on motorcycle rides && sleep with you
&& talk shit to this guy.  At first blush, it sounds pretty lame &&
shallow, but it might yet be fun && I like being with you plenty even
if it must be short-lived.

  The funny thing is you && I are in such an early stage of a dating
relationship that I have no context to be too emotionally attached or
jealous.  Surely, I have a growing infatuation with you... but things
have gotten much more complicated.  Please figure out what you want..
&& then, if you want me on your side, let me in on it.  Whatever it is,
we'll both be more effective together knowing clearly where the other
stands.

  On second thought... you don't even need to do that.  If you would,
it would clarify a lot of things for you, me, && whatever-his-name-is
but I can't look down on you if you're being immature or indecisive.  I
guess just do what you want && I'll roll with it.  If you want me to be
all affectionate with you in front of him, that might be a good way to
start a couple fights.  If it were up to me, this guy would be out of
the picture... he'd have lied && cheated && stole from you... he'd have
neglected everything important to you... && you're struggling to get
removed from him.  I'd rather sock this guy in the face than hang out
with him... especially if he wants to talk shit directly to me or put
you down or tell you what to do.  I normally restrict my violence to
video games but if I get a few beers && some chester has beef && gives
me a shove, I can swing some damage.  You probably want nothing to do
with that && I'd rather it not come to a stupid fight either.  My point
is, if you want me to stay && sleep with you instead of riding home in
the rain, you've gotta ask a better question than "Are you sure you're
good to ride home?" because of course I'm fucking good.  Something more
like "You could sleep with me if the roads are wet" would've been much
nicer. =)  heh... so maybe I've changed your mind or opinion a little
with all of this but at the end of this letter my predictable message
is:  Do whatever you want && I'll deal with it.  The more you divulge,
the better equipped I'll be to help you in whatever form that may take.

ps. My guess is that it would be more fun to hang out at my place next
time rather than giving your dangling ex another forum to twist && spit.
