I'm sorry. I should be more sorry. I don't know how to yet... but what I have tried hasn't worked. What I've thought was probably wrong. Maybe what I've said
too. Try to forgive that. I couldn't understand what you said. You don't feel it! I'm a failure... at even us too. Maybe code is all I know in any useful or
effective way && I've predominantly failed to do anything significant or productive with it to this point. I may well fail to ever accomplish half-hearted
hopes with it later, even if dedicated or I guess more isolated. Maybe that's my real curse. The solely self-consistent (yet externally wholly flawed)
perspective on infinitude, intelligence, truth, etc. that dooms the bearer to brilliant cataclysmic failure, rejection, chastisement, irrelevance. Maybe it's
sad or tragic or a pity... more than fearful. Maybe I'm not supposed to. Dreaming dreams may have depleted my capacity as far as progress goes. Quixotic.
Brash. Brazen. Haughty. Hopeless. Hurtful. Hazardous. Disaster. Crazy. Ugly order. Lost to love. Loathful. Sorry to detach. I just feel like I already did.
Just because I once was capable of being called by or considered to exemplify any or many admirable traits does not mean I still can, should, or will. It's a
prime && fine example of how trivial my typical concerns are && how disproportionate my overreactions can be expected to be. Is it okay to be wrong most of
the time? At some point, it might mean that only screwing up remains reliably. Haven't realized that. Could be anyway. Oops. I'm the wrong assessor,
appraiser, advisor. Good. Be your individual self. Challenging. Confounding assumptions. Be careful I guess. I dunno. I don't know, can't address whether
you've made mistakes. Now it seems wrong that I thought I could before. What isn't regrettable? I don't know that either. Sure it can be too. Maybe you ought
to. *Shrug*. Me either. I'm a baby. Waaa! Tantric tantrums. Maybe it was imagined or forgettable or compromised. Culminating in some shearing of my id? I
feel it. I guess feelings shouldn't be trusted either. Maybe "I don't know." is what I really *always* say. Easy to say when you have alternatives probably.
I am a house divided. Self-opposed. Calamitous. Listening without hearing. Seeing without perceiving. Feeling thought. Nothing wrong... except to thoughtless
feelers. That's what I meant. Don't believe me. I don't deserve patience. Haven't even tried to earn. Me too though, && worse. Until it doesn't matter? Maybe
whether you find it hard to be patient at all or with yourself or if it broadcasts. I don't know. Stretched && couldn't hear you. Maybe you ought not. Don't
concern yourself with my tears or sadness. They should be the least of your worries. Maybe yours mattered where mine no longer should. What choice?
Squandered choices waste care on already lost, left, lame. Until there weren't. Yeah, perspective. gggggggggggsdlgksjdgk no need. Not for you to be nllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll. Lost too. Bitten && swallowed. Void voice. No. No. I guess hopefully you can find a way for yourself to feel better
&& not responsible or something. You shouldn't. Don't know what you're talking about. Ah. Kinda kind. Nah. Probably just wanted in your pants. Maybe so. I
don't know. I forget what was intended or tried. Sorry I don't remember that. Sounds nice though. Maybe it was honest && all that could be seen then. Not
sure. I doubt it. I probably resented your stupidity or something. I don't know. I have no idea. Could be. I know little of empathy or shit, what I thought.
I didn't have to lie so I probably told what I thought to be true while I thought I should? I don't get it. Senseless. Sensation deprivation begets
depression. What isn't? Doubtful. Debilitated seems like the extent of opportunity. No opportunity to appreciate any further condition as other than
debilitated. Destitute. Dispassionate. Dunked.
