Hello Kristina,                                                  4AVB7Bb

  I know I got drunk at our BackBone Hallow's Eve party && I may have
pressed you to consider && make a decision on some things that you have
related you're not ready for.  Please understand that I did not do so
intentionally... I care about you && respect you immensely && I do not
wish to make you uncomfortable or rush you along or anything like that.
Maybe unfortunately for you though, you inadvertently diffused my
ability to stay back from you.  I can explain somewhat.

  I am a passionate geek.  I think abstractly about problems && life
&& the world && the universe.  This makes me deep && romantic &&
melodramatic && basically equips me with fervor && uncommon enthusiasm
for enjoyment && appreciation of particularly intense aspects of life.
It makes me overflow with vibrant words && feelings... what most people
see as exaggeration... disproportionate exuberance... but this comes
naturally to me because I feel perpetually restrained && only wish to
convey how much broader everything appears to me.  I habitually see
things fantastically && I feel things profoundly.

  Now, I also love fighting video games very much (it is my all-time
favorite genre) however most of the reasons for that can be ignored for
the purposes of this explanation.  Suffice it to say, I have many
reasons for loving fighting games.  The female characters in said games
embody (in an admittedly idealistic && unreal way, since they remain
fictional characters) all of the female characteristics that are
attractive to me.  This is a generalization (as there are a few
malevolent && sinister exceptions to this effusive endorsement) but
fighting game girls are confident && strong && smart && sensitive &&
powerful && loyal && sexy.  They constantly exhibit motivation &&
determination, honor && purpose.  They both command && deserve respect
&& adoration if you get into what they mean (or alternatively, even if
you made up your own fantasy storyline to include them, they would
likely exhibit the same traits).

  So you know that I have already been attracted to you seriously.  You
are smart && sweet && honest && careful && selective && sensitive... you
are gorgeous to me beyond mortal description in every way.  You have
visibly majestic poise, elegance, && magnificence.  No matter how much I
have wanted (or want more now) to be near you, I must respect that you
don't quite know what you want && even if you do, it may not be me.  I
know I can be turbulent... && it's way too much for many people.  I want
you to have all the space && time (continuum) that you need to
understand yourself, your dreams, hopes, && desires... but you brought
my ideas of perfect femininity && beauty together at once... both real
&& tangible && so stunning...  && fantastic && surreal && mystical.  You
exhibited your strength && courage by owning && wearing such garments.
You became the epitome of fighting game girls!  Chun Li is the
archetype.  This triggered a chain-reaction for me... the rest of the
universe sagged && melted away in my mind as inconsequential... && you
remained.  You utterly overwhelmed me with elation && fright...
adoration && timidity, innocence && experience, arousal && concern,
encouragement && frustration... opposites merged && divided && swirled
about together in dimensions that I could not fathom.  I tried
mightily...  I fought to remain calm... tried to stabilize my breathing
&& pulse...  but they were unconquerable.  They could not be reigned in
by any technique I possess && could concentrate on.  You supplanted
other thoughts endlessly... with or without additional stimulus.  I
floundered && asked friends && coworkers for advice.  How could I
recover?  How could I not offend you or scare you or make you mad or
uncomfortable?  I couldn't imagine a good way out.  Should I tell you
the truth?  Should I flee?  Should I drink myself into a depressed
stupor?  Should I prostrate myself before you as a humble servant?
Should I proclaim that I have fallen head-over-heels in love with you?
Maybe a marriage proposal right there?  As I think you can see... I was
nothing but carried away.  I was so nervous && defeated.  It was like a
fighting game && you perfected me by accident.  You deftly struck my
nerve... my backbone if you will... && your off-handed && uncalculated
strike severed my defenses && left me neatly filleted && flopping about
the floor in distress.  Other people likened it to a movie with John
Cusack as the star-struck hopeless romantic.  That analogy resonates
with me too.  Even now, I remain smitten (probably obviously so that I
feel compelled to write all this).

  So I want to explain && want you to understand that I'm sorry if this
is all more than you want... too much to consider or handle.  It has
been for me too && I'm struggling to do my best with it.  I fear you
have been prone to assume that it all can be relegated to mere lust for
any hot cosplay chick or just an isolated && negligible episode of
drunkeness for me... maybe even a loss of self-confidence that you don't
deserve my attention... but I hope to encourage you that it is none of
those.  I wish to allay any fears && misconceptions you may have about
our changing situation.  It is my sincere hope that we can help each
other through this as pleasantly as possible.  I am committed to such an
outcome as thoroughly as I am able.  Honesty will help both of us.
Please, make your time.

your twitterpated samurai friend,
-Pip
