Hi Kristina,                                                     4B5DwQl

  So I fell for you super hard last week.  It was a potent mix of
already finding you very attractive, seeing you dressed as a fighting
girl which is powerful fantasy for me, && a good portion of alcohol.
Now I didn't just find your body attractive before nor was I only
wowed by your costume because of the way you looked in it at the party.
I have been increasingly intrigued && impressed by your intelligence &&
attitude && poise from the moment we met... && I think fighting game
girls epitomize the primarily attractive feminine traits.  Those
imaginary girls are strong && disciplined && honorable && graceful &&
compassionate && confident && dignified && courageous && succulent.
They are idealized representations of womanhood.  To see you, who I have
already had a huge crush on, dressed as the archetype of fighting girls,
I was totally overcome with desire.  I'm sorry if this made for an
unpleasant situation at the party... but it's pretty safe to assume that
my discomfort was more distressing && longer standing so please
understand that I've been doing my best to spare you undue discomfort
but I remain compelled to react in whatever way I imagine would be most
effective in garnering your interest.  This ongoing struggle became
particularly pronounced last week when I couldn't think of any good way
to alleviate the suddenly dominant tension... because I needed to relate
my increasing attraction to you somehow but... I had no idea what could
or would be effective... so I hung out && kept drinking && pondering how
to approach && what to say.

  You responded explaining that you didn't know how to react && that you
need time to figure out what you want.  I don't know if that's a nice
way to say you're not interested... but it hasn't seemed that's what
you've been saying to me.  Each time I have approached you, you've been
kind && receptive to me... but also hesitant.  So I believe that you
really don't know what you want && I'm hoping you are taking time to
figure that out.  Please don't hide it from me if you are not remotely
interested && can never imagine developing any interest in me.  I'm
confident we would both be much better off to know the truth... whatever
it may be.

  You've said that you don't want to go out with someone from work.  I'd
contend that we don't practically work together.  It is pretty unlikely
that we'll ever have more than passing suggestive roles on the same
project.  We don't see each other for weeks at a time.  So just because
we happen to be paid by the same company doesn't mean we really work
together.  Maybe your complaint is gossip-related though.  Maybe it's
very important to you to isolate your work life from home.  I have never
naturally had such a disposition since I care about my work so much that
they inevitably meld && I rarely fight it... but I can respect your need
if it is such.  If you would give us a chance to get to know each other
further, I could make a concerted effort to avoid discussing anything
related to you with my coworkers.  You may notice I've taken care to
write this message to you using our personal e-mail accounts in order to
avoid pressing you further about this in any work context since that is
something you've voiced aversion to.  I've also been biding my time
this week... waiting for the weekend to arrive since this would be a
better time for each of us to take some pensive non-work time alone.

  Now we know I am seriously interested in you && that your main
complaints have been not knowing what you want && working together.  I
hope time && attitude can resolve those.  So in addition to brief
apologetics for those issues, I'd like to go a step further.  Why should
you consider me?  If I'm already disproportionately interested in you,
maybe I can present some direct && compelling reasons for you to
reciprocate.  Which of my traits are most excellent qualifications?

  I'm honest.  I strive to simply say what's true.  This becomes a
monstrous struggle when the truth is complicated... but simple truth is
my favorite approach to relationships.  I believe honesty is the
foundation which enables trust && respect && loyalty && love to grow.

  I'm loving.  I love myself... not conceitedly but rather I'm content
with myself inside && out.  For those parts of me that are less than I'd
wish, I either constantly work to improve them or accept them as facets
of myself that I can be satisfied leaving as they are.  I love my family
&& friends similarly.  I share my heart with them.  I know they have
strengths && shortcomings.  I accept that && love them.

  I'm sensitive... in every sense of the word.  I am considerate.  Even
when it seems I'm making someone uncomfortable, it is almost always
because I'm thinking of broader ramifications && hoping to disturb their
comfort-zone to enable larger improvement.  My sensitivity to people &&
emotions && situations makes me passionate... melodramatic.  This is a
crucial component of me.  Sensation impacts me vigorously.  I am not
afraid to cry or feel.

  I'm playful.  I like to find fun in little && big areas of life.  I
like studying games, creating them, && relishing the compelling
experiences they provide.  I think playfulness is the antidote to any
fear or forebodingness of death.  Laughing && playing && dancing &&
singing... these are celebrations of life && I do them with fervor.

  I'm loyal.  I've never cheated on a girlfriend... only been cheated
on.  I've fled every time a girl has tempted me to be unfaithful.  I am
loyal && faithful to the bone... so I would totally break up with
someone before cheating on them.  This is how I've been, how I'll be, &&
what I hope to find... however rare && unpopular it is today.

  I'm geeky.  I think critically && abstractly.  I contemplate deep
logical constructions && resultant complications.  I strive to be
expressive in every language... spoken, programming, body.  I don't
think I will ever be done growing any particular vocabulary of 
expression.  These mediums of communication, organization,
representation, creativity... they are all poignant.

  I'm creative.  I like to make things whether physical or intangible.
I admire && revere craftsmanship && quality in both the act of creating
&& the result.  I appreciate other peoples' creative outlets && ideas &&
projects.  I constantly have dreams && ideas && ambitious side projects
of my own that motivate me && are tremendously important to me.

  I'm bold.  I go overboard... I do things elaborately... flamboyantly.
This letter is an example.  It's probably too long for you to read
comfortably... && I could totally go on writing why I'm intersted in you
&& why you should give me a chance for many more pages.  This is
tempered by sensitivity though.  I don't want to make you
uncomfortable... so please take whatever time you need to think... to
discover what you want from life, a romantic relationship, a friendship.
If any of those lead to a willingness to get closer to me, please let me
know since... getting closer to you is something I desire as much as I
can while trying not to offend you.  Thanks for reading.  Please
consider me both seriously && playfully at the same time. =)

your interested friend,
-Pip
