Dear Kristina                                                    4B18m4I

  There's a few things I'd like to address.  First of all, I did get a
bit drunk at our BackBone Hallow's Eve party.  I also pressed upon you
again that I am extremely interested in you romantically && attracted
to you physically.  I don't want you to see it as mere lust.  Each time
I have approached you, you have gracefully && carefully related that you
don't know what you want && you need time && space (fortunately there's
a whole continuum available... yet it is still precious =) ).  I wish to
give those to you (time && space).  I desire vastly more than sex so I
hope the fact that I was overwhelmed by your costume is not misconstrued
as just the basest of cravings.  I can explain why it impacted me
profoundly in myriad ways that are not lustful but that would be time-
consuming && likely overwhelming to you in wholly new ways.  We may
revisit the topic should you ever wish to... I just hope you don't chalk
this all up to drunken lust because I am not that mundane.

  My sister && I discussed my increasing infatuation with you yesterday.
She encouraged me to explain why I am good for you, why I think I
deserve someone as wonderful as you.  Oh, I can write or speak at
length about how amazing you already are to me as well but I hope you
know how great you are... so your greatness can be revisited at need
(mostly mine) later as well.  I would not tire of espousing why I am
already overwhelmed by your elegance && poise.  So what are my
qualifications?  Why should you consider me as a worthy candidate for
closer friendship, companionship, maybe romance?  I can't answer with
knowledge of which traits are most important to you yet... but I will
explain why I love myself, which of my characteristics seem most
excellent to me, && why I think I should qualify to court you.

  I am honest.  I strive to tell the truth as simply as I can... which
admittedly, is often a monstrous challenge because the truth isn't
always simple.  I believe that honesty is the cornerstone of every
worthwhile relationship.  I trust myself && others until it seems I
shouldn't.  Without this foundation, I don't believe love or loyalty or
any number of other crucial traits can be soundly established.

  I love... deeply.  I love myself.  I don't mean I dream of gazing at
myself in the mirror but I am happy with almost every part of myself
inside && out.  Those parts of me that are less than I would like them
to be, I either constantly work to improve or I have come to terms with
them && accept that they are facets of myself that I can be content
with even if I don't try to change them.  I love other people similarly.
I love my family && friends.  I share my heart with them.  They, just as
I, have strengths && shortcomings.  I love them.  I love who they were,
who they are, who they're becoming, && who they will be.  This is a very
important trait to me... the capacity && willingness to love... in spite
of the fact that it hurts a lot to do so.

  I am sensitive.  In the extreme, it is seen as passion, melodrama,
zeal, fervor, zanshin, fire... but I feel deeply too.  I am no statue.
I can be moved.  I can be touched by little or big things.  I can cry.
I feel... extreme joy && sadness.  I feel for others.  I am as
considerate as I can be.  I care about others && don't mean to
unnecessarily hurt or even discomfort.  This can become confused though
because I deem certain agitation necessary && beneficial.  Sometimes I
see people as stagnant && complacent && unhappy... which prompts me to
discomfort them... to try to explain or argue why I think improvement is
available.  This can be seen as insensitivity on the surface but it is
actually overriding concern for the broader condition.  So I am
sensitive to little && big things with myself && others.

  I am intelligent.  I think critically.  I consider both immediate
conditions && circumstances as well as abstract && existential
ramifications.  I have powerful reasoning facilities, a broad
vocabulary, a desire to be expressive, effusive even, && an intention
to continue learning as long as I breathe.  I think the desire to learn
is the key to intelligence && ultimately wisdom.  Given enough time, I
suspect the will to learn is the only component needed to ultimately
arrive at truth... although life is limited enough that other faculties
must be employed on a more practical level as well.  Learning is
difficult... it is a constant challenge.  It is scary && humbling to
admit you don't know, don't understand, && may never be able to fully
comprehend something.  Those are requisites to meaningful discovery,
enlightenment, && achievement.  An intelligent person is better equipped
to make good decisions, improve their own condition && the world, &&
probably also, materialistically, to provide for the sustenance
(&& toys) of their family && friends (although my idealism sometimes
clouds this ability).

  I am ambitious.  I regularly bite off more than I can chew but it is
because I know that I have done so before && overcome.  The more I deal
with && achieve things that seem out of my grasp, the farther I can
reach next time.  I strive to do things... I always have many thoughts
&& ideas && side projects.  I aim to accomplish great things && even if
I miss the mark or outright fail at many of them, I keep trying.  Maybe
my goals aren't typical but they are still monumentally important to me
&& I don't let go of them lightly.

  I am creative.  I enjoy creating both abstract && tangible things,
solving hard problems && appreciating other peoples' ambitions &&
creations && artisitic expressions.  I revere craftsmanship && quality.

  I am loyal.  I am no betrayer.  I have never cheated on a girlfriend
&& I intend never to (even though I have been cheated on).  I have been
committed to a girl && seduced by another on several occassions && I've
successfully fled each situation with my integrity intact.  I know this
trait is extremely rare && even unpopular today... so I'm hoping for a
lot to think I could find it in a partner as it is in me... but such is
my hope.

  I am playful.  I enjoy challenge, discourse, puzzles, competition,
struggles, precision, cooperation, strategy, reflexes, complexity,
humor, camaraderie, etc..  I enjoy studying the core components of
games, realizing their construction, && participating in the compelling
experiences they provide.  I have an excitable && playful nature in
almost everything I do.  I believe this is very valuable as it tempers
the severity && abruptness of life.  Play acknowledges the multifarious
beauty && joy that surrounds all that we are && do.  It is a celebration
in the face of death (How apropos?).  I believe dancing && singing are
particularly refined forms of play && I enjoy participating in them when
the time feels right.

  There's plenty more but let's just leave it with this last one for
now: I am perceptive.  I recognize your intelligence && kindness &&
elegance && beauty.  I want to get closer to the degree that we are
comfortable with.  Please consider me favorably as a friend who
seriously (yet playfully =) ) desires a romantic relationship.
Thank you.

your friend,
-Pip
