4B6Gobs: DataFutr.txt byPipStuart<Pip@CPAN.Org>
  The future of data organization && storage will be dominated by global Free (JSON[XY]A?ML). Different tools will arise which let arbitrary data categories
be easily specified, collaborated upon, && duplicated... these will aggregate into a towering moderator / meta-moderator monolith of data. It will constantly
be refined like Everything2 && stuff like that. It will become the defacto resource for any data that can be represented hierarchically. The data will easily
become correlated by XPath statements. A termination character could exist in XPath statements which determine when to follow another link available at the
destination automagically. That part is not necessary but could make linking less than a 1..1 client / server relationship. So these data elements will be
replicated to every architecture && operating system. Maybe Google will provide great interface && search software in exchange for targeted && unobtrusive
advertisement.

  So these data files && their interfaces could embed change logs into
the entire file as alternate values / versions of each data element.
This would allow filters to omit (or easily remove) the contributions
of a rogue data polluter either from the potentially computed result
(think of the history of a particular data value as containing a stack
of operations like an HP calculator... maybe some functions won't be
able to have a proper inverse but the idea remains good).  Another tack
would be making it all anonymous && less accountable... but I think I'll
leave the secret political statements on Freenet && other binary secure
distributed channels that are already good for that purpose.

  The unique id for each data cell update could be a 10-char PT
(although now thinking of it, I'd rather it were 15-chars).  They could
incorporate a validated (at least by e-mail if not some ssh cert stuff)
username, check-in comments.  Having the unique id be a high-precision
timer... they (taken together as operations on the entire data system)
can be easily sorted chronologically even if they originated far
apart...  which according to the best precision any system can maintain,
there would still be some that would occur in different places at the
same instant && they would conflict at merge... well anything with
dependencies done in isolation is prone to this.  So whatever, people
will have to oversee large-scale mergings... but as each sub-community
purifies their data && definitions, they become authoritative.  They
begin to exhaust the available knowledge in that arena (without diving
further than those already have)... so yeah some things could reach
out indefinitely but other things would be exhausted... like a gigantic
global hash where at first your key is the state of your Rubik's Cube
or a chess board state... the answer is correct when it is known && it
it is known when it is unknown.  These... I mean yeah it's said that
we'd need all the molecules in the universe to store just the states of
chess but somehow I think that was a horribly pessimistic && unrealistic
assessment.  I believe we can && will exhaust vast areas of research,
data acquisition, aggregation, maintenance, duplication, querying,
indexing... there are many issues.  It is ambitious yet it would enable
broad categorization, representation of everything.  It could generate
code from any section of data... Data::Dumped Perl or C structs &&
instantiation or #defines or other good options.  This would take
tree editing tools.  Many tools are needed.  I am a tool... I make
tools.  It's just who's tool are you?  Are you a tool of the
establishment... the commercialized rhetoric that determines for you
what you want && where to go && what to think.  Are we not men?  We are
DEVO.  There's goodness in competition... I know... but there's also
great goodness in sharing.  There is wisdom && power && strength in
collaboration, cooperation.  Maybe it's a new Tower of Bavel.  Maybe it
is the unification of the world for abuse?  for Judgement Day?  I don't
know.  I do know that it sounds pretty good && not necessarily
intrusive.  This isn't abortion or cyborgs or crazy AI (it could become
crazy AI but it doesn't necessily precipitate any of these) so it
shouldn't be a huge ethical, moral, humanistic issue... it is an issue
because it disturbs the establishments of data.  It turns them over &&
dumps them out to be copied.  Data is code is data is copyable.  It is
a wonderful amazing thing.  It is hard to accept that digital anarchy
can obsolete many existing data peddlers... I am of course
oversimplifying... certainly data creation && marketing && sale has many
valuable services but granted monopoly on data is unnatural.  What is
the argument?  Sometimes that data won't be created without authority to
hoard it.  That's ridiculous.  Maybe it wouldn't have the same shape &&
form as it does today... but movies && music && software && video games
will still be made && performed && needed && fun.  Global
collaboration... perpetual cooperative improvement on every area of
knowledge && the tools to manipulate it... these are the way things are
going && it seems scary && wonderful.  I welcome our benevolent
cooperating comrades from anywhere.  The only overlords would be those
who continue to enforce data security for culture... I guess the good
guys too... the proponents of Free Software && exchange of data...
would sort of be overlords too to all those who want to hoard data.
The more people know && are known, the less we'll feel different... the
more harmonious all things could be.  This is the future I see.

4B6HnE2 - Pip
  Another thing... this future of data does not stop with categorization
&& access of traditional data values... these can aggregate into larger
assets.  There could be representations of geography, topology, even
models && animations && props.  This data store could become the
collaborative store of digital world representations as well.  Virtual
world storage && maintenance needs this technology too.  This would
enable every car to exist online for anyone to scrutinize... it would
enable anyone to see the real route for driving directions (to whatever
Level Of Detail has been datified along their path && their hardware
can progressively download).  Because everything would be arranged &&
cross-referenced, arrangements could totally be made which optimize for
LOD management.  All crucial features && props of terrain && proximate
zones... then important secondary && tertiary props... then higher
levels detail on whatever you pay attention to.  This would lead to
instantly available && theoretically unrestricted increased resolution
on anything that has been explored.  The important part is, once it's
easy, we will all explore together... whatever we're interested in &&
have time for... && it won't be lost unless it's not worthwhile
anymore... which is an excellent metric.  It will be easy to store &&
duplicate valuable data.  As long as anyone values it, it should be
able to remain widely mirrored && accessible via distributed queries to
a common NameService registry which indexes all manner of code && data
via URL's && XPaths.  This would allow real cities to be played in GTA
&& crazy Tony Hawk combos all over real spots && Spiderman swinging in
any fun city && driving any real vehicle anywhere... && paintballing &&
FPS && RTS && Fighting... all the fantasy genres can happily co-exist
on planes of virtual reality.  The highest plane will probably approach
Stephenson's Metaverse as technology enables it.  I'm happy to be kinda
like Hiro.

  Other opportunities exist for distribution of computation, rendering,
etc..  This would let crazy servers render the hardcore state of a piece
of the world && send the video image, audio, force-feedback, etc.
appropriate as coming from that sector for their eye's perspective.
This would permit thin-clients to primarily be video receptors... they
get a wireless broadcast of the proper video rendering... this rather
assumes that both powerful && weak hardware cooperates && collaborates
too... && that a person's virtual coordinates, trajectory, etc. are
rather universal such that nearby nodes can know it && assist in
representing it to their capacity.  The distribution could be
dynamically balanced.  As another client is introduced, each of their
LOD's should half... thus getting nearer to better equipment would make
your experience more vivid at a slight expense to everyone else you are
sharing with.  It seems an interesting future.  Such hotspots in the
future will become centers of collaboration, education, fantasy,
research, entertainment... maybe our lives will primarily exist in
proximity to powerful nodes... or even someday, all the hardware &&
sharing electricity && processor cycles && rendering time will become
negligible.  Resolution will become better than anyone's eyes.  Anything
imaginable could be realized in real-time.  Then it will remain for
people's fantasies && dreams && thoughts && ideas to be explored &&
shaped together... maybe after all that sharing, things will be much
better, much brighter.  Hopefully not still dark... but then people want
ill-gotten power.  If there are power-centers, they can be corrupted.
The system must be so distributed... like the internet already seems to
be... resiliant && able to route around failure... small or large.  This
idea && principle is like the United States Declaration of Independence.
The idea that protocols && data && networks && hardware && memory &&
space && money && time should be shared in the name of progress... in
the name of collaboration.  Design in the ability to route around
failure... support that ability whenever it is clear how to do so.  It
is a wave I see on the horizon.  That I can see it doesn't mean I won't
be crushed by it... in fact that I can see it means I'm more likely to
talk about it than anyone around me who can't see it... && they're more
likely to become irate at the disruptive idea && wish to stifle or
silence my voice on the inevitability of this future... but even if that
happens, I must speak what I believe.  I must believe what makes sense
to me && what I can see.  I'd rather be lost living && breathing the way
I believe even if quite different than ignoring the tsunami on the
horizon && pretending everyone talking about it sees nothing that could
disturb my stable way of life if anything at all.  Maybe it's like
ostriches.  I don't mean to be full of myself either but I guess I am.
How can an impending future && revolution be so visible && vivid && yet
still so remote as to not exist to almost everyone.  Free Software geeks
have gotten it from way back.  Many more today than ever before.  It
reaches out to everyone... countries without a crazy police force that
is bent on maintaining data monopolies will not resist rampant piracy in
the least.  It feels like it's almost time && yet... maybe I have to
plant seeds for it as I do && not get to see them bloom.  That's okay
though too.  It still gives me purpose && appreciation && gratitude for
vision... for participation... for role.  It is a glorious game.  I like
it && want to keep playing.

4B6JIDL - Pip

  Also Poker hands could be indexed... odds exhausted.  Just making sure
everyone really plays Poker against each other on the same footing.
Pure knowledge of the game they are playing... against each others'
baiting && bluffing && weathering of longer fluctuations of the outcome
appearing not to correspond to the odds.  Distill the game to its core
component.  Maybe that game is still great fun... but like Rubik's
Cubes, the game seems shallower than it really is to me because of the
bar which includes easily exhaustible knowledge.  The purer game exists
where opponents have the same parameters... they enter the arena with
the same equipment... they both know the same thing... && the game
emerges from there.  That's how I see it... that's what I want to do
with technology && games.  Bring common knowledge... cater... handily
deliver knowledge.  Google is awesome for finding a benevolent way to
fund vast amounts of it in a positive feedback loop.  Google could
become corrupted though since it is a large company which must play
large company games... or at least it seems that way considering the
prevalent right to earn back huge on investment.  The gigantic expected
rate of return on stocks && corporations... it is the engine that fuels
bigger engines.  Free Software is better still than Google.  Maybe it
directly impacts fewer lives... the attitudes have been similar... so
even if Google became subverted by big corporate mentalities, they've
still contributed valuably for a long time.  They highlight the need
for powerfully mirrored && indexable data.  This stuff is heavy... it
takes a lot of planning.  My projects keep unfolding.  I need to focus
on them && DJ... && maybe moving to Nippon.  What about the issue of
wanting a role... wanting a place that is not unique... that is a
stereotype... an argumentative Christian, a drunk druggie, a nerd, a
cool dude snowboarder, a sport biker, an Orthodox Jew, a samurai...
a something else... a growing person that keeps becoming other things.
Defining or mimicing stereotypes though.  That is choice... from big to
small... will I like this genre of game, this product of purchase, this
person or that one, a particular car, political affiliation, favorite
movies && music && video games, etc. things that seem new?  ... seem
different && better... more expressive && fluid... more harmonious &&
pure.  Where competition is safe && fun && on the same footing as far as
data is concerned... && where peace permeates other... but the
vividness... of the depictions of violence... as they are simulated more
realistically by technology as well... GTA will become less uncanny &&
more distressing.  Simulated car driving could show death... like of
realistic characters in realistic collisions.  So maybe people could be
expected to know the difference always... but if the immersion improved
many exponential times over... && the interface was indistinguishable
from true sensation... What are the ethical ramifications therein?
At some point, will games become so realistic or immersive that the acts
of violence are really hurtful... like if it was real enough people you
accosted rather than bots... would it become too real && ugly && not the
right attitude to condone or support?  What are you saying?  People want
violent video games however fantastic or realistic... so let them play
whatever the hell they want.  But when they personally lose the ability
to discern fake from real... then they act wrong in real && deserve what
they get (hopefully... assuming there's real justice)... but until then,
everyone can && should be free to choose to make or play any game
whatsoever.  If you don't like the violence... don't play.  If you don't
like horror movies, don't go see them... but don't stop other people
from choosing that for themself.  That extends all the way... like right
to punch stopping at someone's nose for their right not to be hit.  The
Libertarian non-initiation of force... it is good && right.  It is the
proper way of peace in the future.  It is the proper way to Freedom of
people && ideas.  I'm not saying it should happen quickly because
destabilization is not what I want really.  I want a smooth transition
towards global improvement... but when we're still moving in the
opposite direction... it makes me want to get off.  Maybe other people
will too... enough or eventually to gradually improve the power
structures of goverment && corporation to appreciate Liberty as
many geeks already do with data.
