Written by: Philip Stuart           Date: Thursday, September 7th, 2000
Re: Mr. Fish vs. Stuart

  Following is a summary of my dispute with Mr. Fish:

    Mr. Fish and I entered a contract which required the installation,
configuration, and enhancement of an open-source system called
OpenMerchant (late April).  OpenMerchant was the beta e-commerce
software that Mr. Fish had chosen to have his 800Telephone system
implemented with.

    I was to be paid $822 each week with a significant completion bonus.
Despite my vigilant efforts, I was unable to install and configure
OpenMerchant to function correctly (early May).  This was due to the
inadequate state of the beta-release code available at that time.  As a
result, I was unable to meet the deliverables for week 2 or any week
following.

    Mr. Fish stopped paying me because I was unable to meet the
deliverables.  We then entered a vague verbal agreement that I should
attempt to replace OpenMerchant with an equivalent system I would
develop from scratch (mid May).

    By dropping OpenMerchant, the necessary deliverables (and the order
in which they could be constructed) was drastically changed.  Mr. Fish
was enthusiastic and agreed to pay my personal bills.  I was paid either
$500 or $600 every other week for the remainer of my development effort
(which narrowly covered my costs).  Mr. Fish failed to even pay me
enough to afford my bills during July.  During the entire twelve weeks,
I received approximately $5000 (less than half of the $10k for ten weeks
which we had agreed on).  He grew increasingly abusive and irrational.
I was forced to persue other employment in order to cover my living
expenses.

    Based on the fact that our entire contract became invalid after the
third week of development (when we agreed to drop OpenMerchant), I would
like Mr. Fish and I to go our separate ways with no further recourse for
additional punitive action.


Philip Stuart

