                             Gerry Stuart                  9  Page  1
                      815 Franklin Street #1008
                       Reading  PA  19602-1122
                                                              PIP.404

                Thursday, October 7, 2004   -   2317


Pip Stuart
124 Bonita Count
Rodeo  CA  94572-1835-24


Dear Philip,

    I received your letter on Saturday, October 2nd, 2004.  Thank you so
    much.

Ah yes.  46 miles NNW of Milpitas.  Rodeo is such a tiny town.  What was the
attraction? (Q1) *All Q's are highlighted yellow.

    Are your moves generally due to employment changes, or ... ? (Q2)

Yes.  I got the Birthday Card (on August 1st  --  7 days early).  Also got the
Father's Day Card (on Thursday, June 17th  --  3 days early).  Thank you for
both.

    You said you'd "like to start writing each other" again.  'S OK with me.
    I'm ready.  Maybe you'd like to start with last November.  There are a
    number of things I asked about in my letter (PIP.303) to you of Sunday,
    November 16th (incorrectly dated October 16th), 2003, that I'd still like
    to know about.


gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p1o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  1
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

If you have misplaced that letter, and would like a fresh copy, just let me
know.  But I'll (here) re-do the main outstanding questions.

    Is PERL your primary language ?  (Q3)    And why ?  (Q4)

What's going with Ange ?  (Q5)    And Tim ?  (Q6)

    On to other things.  In your "5-16-04" letter, you said you went to "E3"
    the previous week  --  and that "it was super cool."  But you elucidated
    no further.  What's an E3 ?  (Q7)    And what was "super cool" about it ?
    (Q8)

In your "7-28-04" Birthday Card to me, you said you were "getting ready to
head down to L.A. for this year's Evo2K.COM tournament."  But  --  what is
that ?  (Q9)    And how did it go ?  (Q10)

    In the midst of your recent moves, did you get Angie's B-day card ?
    (Q11)    And Tim's ? (Q12)

You keep telling me you will tell me about what you went through around the
end of 2003.  If it's too painful to write to me about it, then don't.  But,
if your really want to share it with me  --  then do.  In either case, stop
telling me that you're "going to."  That's's all.

    OK.  I'll talk about me some now.

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p2o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  3
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

As you know, I've been the (official) "webmaster" for the BoyertownMuseum.org
since June of '03.  This takes up a good deal of my time.  About half of which
is actually creating the webpages  --  the other half being:  learning how to
do this or that.

    I'm growing in HTML, but also making my share of mistakes.  It is goood.
    I'm a smiley camper.

On Wednesday, March 24th, 2004, something happened with my 1991, "386", 40
MHz, computer.  And it cleaned-house on nearly 1/2 of the hard drive.  I limped
along on what was left, but got the ball rolling on getting a replacement for
it.

    In September, that was done  --  and I now actually have room for a web
    browser.  That's nice.  Now I can test our web pages as I'm crafting
    them, instead of waiting for my weekly visit to the Museum  --  15 miles
    east of the apartment.

With the advent of "the machine", I now  --  for the first time ever  --  have
an Internet connection.  I asked my ISP if it was possible to NOT have an
email address.  He said, "No.  That is actually what we use as your 'account
number'."

    I said, "OK."  But I have tentatively declined not to use it for the first
    5 years (or so).

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p3o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  4
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

People cringe, and/or make fun of me, when they hear some of my quirks.  So I
rarely share them  --  except when seemingly necessary.

    And I don't customarily also give my "why-fors", that I'm about to share
    with you.

                      ------------------------------------

About 10 to 14 years ago, I moved into a "place" where it was impressed upon
me that truly "more" is NOT more.  "Less" is more.  And conversely, "more" is
less.  It was not "Elton John's song, "The Simple Life", that was the impetus
in this alteration to my life's modus operandi  --  but its lyrics certainly
are greatly in tune with it.

    I have always been a "techie"  --  always into science  --  always up on
    the new  --  the coming  --  the latest innovations, and developments  --
    especially in the world of science.  I was operating (in 1967) and
    programming (in 1970) computers  --  before the average American could
    quite define the word.

I was always the first on my block to have the latest newfangle.  Not for the
"boasting rights"  --  but because I wanted the utility of it.  And the price
didn't matter.  I wanted the usefulness of it  --  and I wanted it now.

                      ------------------------------------

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p4o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  5
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

                      ------------------------------------

    In 1968, I paid $329 (plus tax) for an "Ansafone."  It was made by a
    company that did not build stuff for home consumers.  They were into
    hi-tech (and high priced) electronic office equipment.  Nevertheless.  I
    wanted one.  The device records messages for you when you're not home to
    answer the phone.  I was job hunting, and I didn't want to miss any phone
    calls.

In less than 15 years, you could go into your local Radio Shack and buy an
answering machine for $50, with ten times the features that my 1968 "Model
540" had !  But no big deal.  I had the utility of it back when everybody else
just had to "miss those calls" when they weren't home.

                      ------------------------------------

    In 1991, Plantronics Corporation had just come out with a "no-hands,
    wireless-headset" type of telephone  --  this was well before the days of
    "cell-phones"  --  and I thought, "Finally !"

Back in 1987, I had some preliminary discussions with a number of engineers on
creating exactly that.  At that time, I was working in an office where it
would have been extremely advantageous,  #1:  to have use of both of my hands
when I was on the phone  --  instead of having one dedicated to holding the
receiver, and  #2:  to be able to move about my office, 10, 15, 20 feet or so
to access various files, books, and papers, without being tethered by this
infernal phone cord.

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p5o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  6
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

    I didn't go through with the venture to manufacture them  --  but in the
    summer of '91, I bought one.  The Plantronics.  For $400, plus shipping &
    handling  --  then only available by mail order.  Though I found three
    flaws in the design, it was 97% wonderful, and  --  for the most part  --
    achieved what I had been searching for four years earlier.

                      ------------------------------------

But this was on the brink of some very major changes in my life.

    It was in October of '91 that I became speechless.  Hmmm.  Instantly, I
    had no need for a phone.  And though there were quite a few reasons why I
    wasn't entirely happy about not being able to participate in verbal
    communication, I had to admit that being phoneless was, without-a-doubt,
    a form of freedom.

In the past 12 or so years, I have watched the world strap-on all these
technological gizmos that un-free their lives.  And they justify them so
swiftly by saying "but I'm connected"  --  and ready to "do business" in a
fast paced world.

    Every creature (I'm speaking now, mostly, about the human species  --
    but it probably applies to nearly any "creature") experiences "loss."  We
    all lose things.  Some of the losses  --  such as the CO2 we lose in each
    exhale  --  are of little, or no, consequence to us.  Other losses  --
    such as, a job we really wanted; or our first choice as a date to the
    Senior Prom; or other such things which we may choose to lament for years
    to come  --  are of a greater nature within our psyche.

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p6o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  7
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

And thereby, we (the human animal) tends to go to rather extensive  --  and
sometimes, expensive  --  lengths in our attempts to prevent losses from
invading our lives.

    I ask myself.  What MUST I do today ?  That is.  What things must I
    attend to today so that the life-style I have crafted for my self does
    not get whittled away by the mere negligence of my not attending to these
    things ?

Now.  Before I answer that question (for me)  --  for, I know, I am not the
"norm"  --  I am going to answer it (as if) I were normal.

    *    I need to check my voice mail
    *    And my email
    *    And my pager messages
    *    And my pocket secretary
    *    And my U.S. mail
    *    And my fax machine

And, in many cases, I must do these both at home, AND at the office.

    And what if I don't do them every day  --  many times a day even ?  It's
    real simple.  I'll lose.

I'll lose:

    *    Opportunities for business
    *    Opportunities for contacts
    *    Opportunities for meetings
    *    Opportunities for networking

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p7o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  8
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

Bottom line:  I'll lose dollars, and (consequently) my quality of life.

    Well.  My (personal, un-norm) quality of life is not based on, nor does
    it revolve around, dollars, income, business, bank accounts  --  and
    barns & silos.

I think I've gone on enough here.  It's just my explanation of why I'm
anti-email.

    And.  It's just for now.  I may change my mind.  ***  And.  It's just for
    me.  ***  I'm not saying that people should go "off" email.  For many,
    it's a wonderfully advantageous thing to have, and use, and depend on.

It's just not for me  --  for now.

    I am over 10 years into a very simplified lifestyle  --  and I like it.
    I own a bed, 2 chairs, a filing cabinet, and a bookcase, and very little
    else.  And as I look around, I find that I am probably about the happiest
    person I've seen, met, or known in the past decade.

It's working.  I'll probably not become apt to "fix" it.

    OK.    EOF.    Your turn.

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p8o9(0410090806)
                                                           9  Page  9
                                                              PIP.404
                                            Thursday, October 7, 2004

Tell me:

    *    Where you've been (both physically & psychologically) in the past 12
         months.
    *    What you've been doing (work-wise & other-wise)
    *    What's been good
    *    What's been not-so-good
    *    Plans for the future (near & further maybe)
    *    What you want
    *    Long for
    *    Goals
    *    Would like to see come to pass (or come to be)

And (of course) answers to my 12 questions from above.

    I don't know that you have to cover all this in one document/sitting.
    But tell me about you.  You know that I don't really know the "who" that
    you have become.    Enlighten me up.

                                             *rest hand-written
                                                  Thank you
                                                  I love you Philip

                                                     Dad

gs/mc,c:[blackwood]\wp513\docs\pip.404;v1p9o9(0410090806)
