Dear Dad,                                                       4B6K0hq

  Thank you for your letter.  I've been having quite an interesting
time.  Work && trying to cultivate relationships... trying to understand
my && others' conditions more appropriately.  I find I'm typically too
boisterous to persuade anyone of the opportunities for improvement or
the impending doom that I see && explain rationally && passionately.
Maybe too disruptive... too unhindered by social protection mechanisms
which sufficiently restrain others.  The capacity to come unhinged...
it seems to loom even when it's not really there... or is it?
*dramatic note descension Dah! Dah! Dah!* yeah the perpetual second-
guessing the second-guess is not quite back to where you started
anymore... it's an infinite recursion that's hard to not be swallowed
by.  A black hole of thought... like panic attacks... negative feedback
loops powered by negative reinforcement that you think you are or are
going to become crazy because you're not because you are.  The silly
gibberish opposites game?  No... that's not an argument... yes it is.
Alright dork.  You win... you're crazy && you win.  What did I win?
... a new car! ... no... you won against the thought that I'm a crazyman
&& so are you... in a crazy world.  Perspectives... matters of degree...
these things are merely measurements... mostly meaningless.  Comparison
with established "norms" does not itself need to be normal.  Don't get
me wrong... I think competition && comparison are both very important &&
fun && should not be going away at all... but that in certain areas,
who's to say who's crazy?  I guess whoever has power to say so... but
Free data could change that.  Free Software && protocols && data enable
people everywhere to share && communicate && collaborate.  Admittedly
some of the arguments are based on business-opportunity-missed-this &&
staying-connected-that but there really is amazing potential... to
unseat the established power structures calmly && peacefully &&
strategically && intelligently.  I'm not saying I'm good enough at all
of those as will be needed... but I enjoy planning && playing &&
creating what I can to propagate && illuminate && celebrate the
beautiful future of Free (Libre) data that I see.  So e-mails... are
a convenience.  They are much faster than paper && ink being handled &&
prepared && sent && sorted && shipped && you get the idea.  So then
why is "faster" (*note* I'll try to get to everything but I'm feeling
pretty stoned && effusive so addressing your questions directly may be
roundabout && ... well not broken neatly into paragraphs unless I find
a good place to do it... but with all this stream-of-consiousness
stuff... I'm flowing faster than I care to segment... so where were we?)
== "valuable" or "better" or "worthwhile".  There is a case.  Speed by
itself does not need to be better... it could be seen as just another
worthless measurement... however "faster" && "speed" are shrouds for
"efficiency" && "effectiveness".  There can be a purification process as
things, calculations, knowledge, advice, examples, simulations, etc.
can all be summoned.  This takes speed && efficiency... it takes an
amazing amount of planning.  It's also a hard cause because most people
can't see that a future of dependence (to an appropriate degree... which
we'll need to collectively discover) or appreciation or exploitation of
technology can lead to amazing human collaboration && understanding &&
success in whatever we focus on.  This is what I see through Free
protocols && code && data && culture && research && knowledge all being
freely duplicated && distributed to wherever it is needed... or
desired.  So then e-mail is a convenience.  It is not like hearing
someone's voice... which can be critical of course... but it is also
like your voice-message machine Ansafone thing.  That would be available
for your potential employers to contact you whenever they had time &&
you could review them when you had time.  Now here's the suggested
tangent of "It was purchased so that you could be available for urgent
business contact, fiscal opportunity, e-business connections in the
fast-paced wheelin'-&&-dealin' world, etc."...  Well it doesn't need to
be used for that.  Many people use voicemail today for wholly personal
contact.  Many people don't even mind mixing work && play... I make
video games so I have no problems with business work && play being
intertwined but many people are not like me... so for those people who
do want or need strict separation... don't use technology for whatever
business purposes you'd rather avoid... only certain people have to
carry pagers or cell phones or personal secretaries or whatever... but
everyone else is free to choose to do that if they want to.  Those
things can && do enrich peoples' lives... because access to data &&
knowledge is a beautiful && fun thing.  We all set our own terms... so
while it may seem like I'm either arguing hard that you should adopt
e-mail because it is a good technology or trying desperately to justify
my dependence on said technology... well it should seem like that.  You
have an aversion to e-mail... as does Tim.  I respect that.  It doesn't
make much sense to me most of the time... since there are great benefits
to e-mail that I appreciate && employ... like the ability to premeditate
your message when you so choose (just as handwriting a letter lets you
do) but then it's much easier to edit it && spell-check it && make
backup copies of it && send it, for all intents && purposes, instantly.
This capacity enables much more than letters or phones in the future...
even if the present seems less desirable than some of the old standards
for communication.  Of course there will be prevalent video phones with
better resolution && fidelity than tv's or phones that people have
known.  Those conversations can be recorded && broadcast in surround
sound or can be stored && recalled easily.  A lot more information could
be used to communicate through technology.  The log of conversations
could be indexed && searched automagically for later research.  There
is great untapped potential in the future of technology && software &&
philosophy && religion that they all could come together in global
unity... freedom && vigilance.  A new Tower of Bavel where everyone
understands each other across the globe... well at least facilitated
by technology which I hope to become ubiquitous.  I'm not advocating
cybernetic implants or crazy Artificial Intelligence routines that
govern the future... although there are some inevitable ethical &&
moral dilemmas that will have to be faced down once those areas gain
sufficient momentum.  There are a lot of unknowns... but there is yet a
lot of great opportunity.  So I think e-mail is good && like using it
&& I also like to write letters sometimes because moving ink on paper
is romantic && special in its own way... to be mostly saved for special
expression && occassion for me.  Anyway, I'm fine to keep doing whatever
we do... I just think e-mail can be very convenient && good && I think
we could write each other more regularly... although waiting on mail
delivery && going through the motions of message writing && preparation
is still a fine && cool process.  It's like if messages are typed
though... well sometimes people can type much faster than they can write
or read or speak... so it enables a more flowing expression of
thought... sometimes an optimized transmission of idea.  So if it's
being typed && exists in a digital form && is not part of the system of
romantic ink && calligraphy && script && strokes && cute drawings &&
signatures... it doesn't seem necessary to subject it to the
inefficiency of being printed out && mailed && stuff.  It just seems
like a weird hybrid to me... but I can understand feeling slave to the
automation of things like message routing && delivery... the beckoning
of speed constantly suggests that you should check it faster && more
often... if you see it that way... so there are other valid
complaints... like security is a good one but then technology can
provide better answers for that than traditional ground mail too... so
then just set your own pace.  Check when you want to && don't when you
don't.  It makes sense.  Use it or don't.  Check it often or don't.
Rely on it or don't.  I have many reasons to appreciate && trust && rely
on e-mail as a valuable tool.  We can discuss this further... I guess it
just stood out as something that you already have but you don't plan to
use it for about 5 years.  It's curious to me.  I mean I can understand
wanting a simple life && not having or needing much.  It is dramatically
against the grain of the connected world to avoid e-mail or the web
today... && it seems pure from that perspective of not following the
crowd without good reason... or even to their destruction... but my
perspective is that technology (properly developed && directed)
facilitates magnificent complexity yes... but chaos reigned in... data
globally categorized && utilized... a brilliant future of knowledge &&
peace.  It is not won through violence or initiation of any physical
force... but rather a manipulation of thought... the planting &&
cultivation && dispersion... pollination... of the world with seeds of
understanding... exhausted exploration.  People sharing && contributing
what they can && want to.  I have vivid visions of our future world && I
am so ineffective at guiding it but I still want it to be good.  People
are afraid...  they want the status quo... they are comfortable &&
complacent && want to continue as things are almost always... now
sometimes my thoughts && talk sound revolutionary... sound violent...
but I don't act on those... it is just deep-running frustration with the
recognization of an amazing potential future for everyone... && people
are incapable or unwilling or afraid to grasp the likelihood that
together we can shape && guide technology for good.  heh... that was
preachy.  Sorry... I get fired up sometimes. =)

  Ok... so (A1): Rodeo is a cool place.  My friend, Mike, && I needed to
move again because we were both working super far from our old place so
the commute was rotten.  We were living down near San Jose but I was
working in Emeryville && Mike was working in Mill Valley (up in Marin
County across the GoldenGate or Richmond Bridge).  This place is kinda
between our two jobs && off NorthEast a bit from the most populated
areas of the East Bay.  We found a great 3-bedroom house for nice rent,
have our own rooms, a gazebo thing with a jacuzzi && sauna in the back,
a garage for our cars && bikes && video game machines.  This is a great
place to live.  I totally love it here... I think it's the best place I
have yet lived... which makes it pretty funny that I'm considering
moving to Nippon next year.  My best friend from L.A., Beppu, decided
to move I guess for dissatisfaction over recent United States political
developments but I've been disenchanted by the same-old-same-old
political parties && their candidates for many years... so now doesn't
seem any more particularly urgent to leave than another time for me but
that Beppu might be going && there's so much that excites && entices me
about Nippon... I think I just may move there indefinitely with him.  I
love video games && technology && sport bikes && sushi && Nipponese
women && anime && samurai folklore... so it seems there would be a lot I
would enjoy there.  I'm considering it.  If I do go, it will probably be
sometime late next year.  Anyway, Rodeo is super cool.  We're close to
Berkeley && our jobs && other cool big cities.  Milpitas wasn't bad but
Rodeo is totally better.  I love it here. =)

  (A2): My moves have been related to all sorts of things.  The ones I
can remember are: my job, lack of money, crazy girl experience,
roommate's job, lack of money, landlord wanted to sell instead of rent,
then both our jobs.  Yeah that's 7 in about 2 years.  Hopefully we'll
stay in this place for a good long time... at least a year... maybe
longer if I don't move to Nippon.

  3BG letter (PIP.303):
  (A3): Yes, Perl is my primary programming language...
  (A4): ... because it is the most fluid && expressive programming
language I have yet encountered.  It takes care of so many things for
you that free you from the mire of much technical minutia which lets you
concentrate on more emergent && complicated issues.  It is an incredibly
powerful tool for controlling machines.  Perl can be employed for almost
any programming task that needs to be done in a flexible && powerful way
with a minimum of programmer time wasted on esoteric details which
hardly ever matter.  Perl is a DWIM (Do What I Mean) language.  It
has default contexts for things... which is like real spoken language.
You have a subject you were just discussing... well so does Perl (
typically the $_ or @_ scalar && array respectively).  It is a natural
way for me to think && specify machine instructions whenever extreme
performance is not the utmost concern.  There are different speeds to be
concerned with... the speed && efficiency of programmer time versus
execution time... well technically also versus many other things like
memory usage && how well-documented it is, etc. but for the purposes of
favorite language choice, I prefer to assume that my time is more
valuable than the machines.  This can have exceptions && be overridden
when profiling (the act of evaluating which sections of code take up the
most execution time) demonstrates the need for optimization into a more
rigid statically-typed (probably) compiled programming language (like
Java or C).  Perl has a few mottos which I love... since they all
resonate with me && my style && attitude.  Perl is the Swiss Army Knife
of programming languages.  Perl makes easy things easy && hard things
possible.  With Perl, TMTOWTDI "Tim Toady" (There's More Than One Way To
Do It!).  The book, "Programming Perl" is the only resource needed to
get a thorough indoctrination into Perl syntax, style, && culture.
Another great resource is the CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network)
at CPAN.Org.  It is a globally mirrored repository of Perl code which
solves all manner of software problems in a universal, typically Free
Software or Open Source, cross-platform, technological environment.
It is a great collaboration of commonly useful functionality.  I love
Perl. =)

  (A5): Ange is pretty good every time I talk to her.  She's had some
tough challenges but she's always wonderful && smart && loving &&
patient && has good advice for me.  I love && respect her dearly.  She's
a fine woman && a great sister.  I miss her... but I'm totally excited
to see her && Tim soon.

  (A6): Tim has had some very severe bouts with cancer.  He has had
Hodgkin's Lymphoma which he has undergone myriad chemotherapy &&
radiation treatments for... to kill all the tumors but to stop short of
killing Tim.  It's such a precarious balance those doctors must walk
with such modern (but still crude-seeming) bloodletting techniques.
His most recent battle just concluded a couple months ago.  It is scary
&& sad && frustrating to see him struggle with such a difficult
challenge.  I love him enormously.  He is such a fine && smart && kind
&& wise man.  He's in good shape now && pursuing his dreams again.  I
hope he doesn't have to deal with such ailment again.  I can't wait to
hug him.

  I could probably say more about them but... I think they have yet to
come to any sort of terms of wanting a relationship with you so I need
to respect their desires to not have you know much about them.  Neither
of them want you showing up at their doors unexpectedly.  I still do
want contact... sorta want you to know where my door is... so I'm in a
different position than them.  I'm a limited conduit for them.  I am
glad to relay messages in either direction but they have asked mostly to
be left alone by you for now... so please abide by their desire as I do,
because we both love them.  I'm sure they'll let you or I know if /
when they change their minds.

  (A7): The super cool E3 is the Electronics Entertainment Expo held
annually in the L.A. Convention Center.  It showcases all the video
games being developed globally that are good enough to show... && often
debuts upcoming gaming hardware many months or years before it will be
available to the public.  It is an interesting mix of business && fun.
There are lots of business people around shmoozing && sweating &&
making deals && trying to get people excited about their technology or
product... but there are also tons of smart developers walking around...
catching up with old friends, getting && sharing ideas, there's new &&
innovative games to be played well before they'll be widely available.
E3 is probably the most fun place to ever be for a video game nerd.
Their website is E3Expo.Com if I remember correctly.  I'm sure you could
browse that URL && see their public representation to find pictures &&
more involved descriptions should you wish to understand better.

  (A8): E3 was super cool because Mike came with me && we totally had a
ton of fun walking around playing all the games && drinking beers &&
talking && having fun.  I had some kidney stones right then which hurt
bad one of the 3 days while we were walking around... but otherwise, it
was wonderful to see many of my old friends, see && play with all sorts
of upcoming game hardware && software, etc..  I'm looking forward to
going again in several months.

  (A9): Evo2K.Com is a website for the Evolution International Fighting
Game Tournament that I help run && participate in.  You can see that
website too for information on the games && participants && stuff.  It
is put on by many of my friends who are the leaders of most major
fighting game communities in the United States.  The guys at
ShoRyuKen.Com are the originals && the ones that all others have become
affiliated with.  SRK is Nipponese for "Dragon Punch" which is the
archetypal uppercut from Capcom's Street Fighter series of games which
globally birthed the mass popularization of the genre.  Other franchises
have risen up to deserved heights of popularity && have fostered high
levels of competition.  Capcom's games were all basically 2-dimensional
so there are other publishers && developers (like Namco && Sega) who've
made excellent 3-d fighters as well.  So I love helping run &&
participating in international fighting game tournaments.  I'm not yet
the best fighter && I don't train all the time to become so either...
but I still enjoy participating at my level && improving wherever I can.

  (A10): Our last Evo went better than any before it.  We had some
astonishing performances && drama && exhibitions of strategy && skill &&
intuition && reflexes && knowledge played out during the finals.  The
competitors && fans all had a great time.  It was very nerdy && very
fun.  I love fighting games.

  (A11): I did get && send on Angie's B-day card...
  (A12): ... && Tim has asked me to hold them for if he ever wants them.

  Ok... so what happened to me last year... hmm let me smoke a little
more weed first... =) I like to smoke sometimes to think && relax.  I'll
be right back... dang... I was just chillin downstairs watching the
video game channel (G4TechTV) we get on cable... && they have a show
called "Players" which is very odd.  It's supposed to be framed like
an Mtv show called Cribs where you tour famous peoples' houses &&
belongings... to be jealous of their wealth && materialistic success but
this "Players" show is showing famous people who are not generally
talented video game players playing games poorly with their friends.  I
guess they're famous && already belong on tv or whatever but it's just
strange to me that nobody at those networks understands that it'd be way
cooler to see real good game players on that show... not just people
who's name I may have heard before for something totally unrelated to
their video game playing ability. =)  Top skill && play... these should
be the shining examples on video game tv but instead, it is more of the
same beautiful people popularity contest stuff... instead of game
strategy && performance.

  So I guess this is all related... that when I got into college, I got
into drugs && enjoyed mostly responsibly && recreationally experimenting
with && using chemicals to see what they do.  Well I also get way into
work && have high highs && low lows so extreme paranoia can accentuate
that quite a bit too.  So I had mostly been able to find good things in
every bad situation before... whether drugged out or not... so I didn't
think I had any problem with substance abuse ever... I started &&
stopped plenty of times for plenty of reasons... but then last year, I
had such a hard time finding work or making money or feeling worthwhile
&& productive && hopeful... && it all just fell away... && I wanted to
get high high && low low && it didn't matter.  I hated my hate.  It was
a negative feedback loop... a seemingly infinite recursion... where rut
upon rut is established in the facilitation of doing more until you are
dead... but drugs are a crap way to die... even if there were a good
reason to be dead... speed is not the way to do it... as far as I can
tell now.  So I did until I couldn't && then I couldn't sleep && I came
down && wanted to be dead for a long time but still didn't && wouldn't.
I felt that I was Satan... the source of all evil && hatred in the
world.  The horrible son... who abused && used && wasted && hated...
everything I touched.  The soiler... the ruiner.  It all came down as
though I'm terrible... but then I'm presuming too much to think I could
be the most terrible... so I'm not even that bad but I'm still bad to
think that I could be... etc..  Lines upon lines of thought... of anti-
me interpretations of memories... second-guessing second-guesses.  In
that light, everything I do is dark.  It glared down around me &&
scorched me && said there is only Black vs. White, Red vs. Blue, Evil
vs. Good, Man vs. Woman, Man vs. G-d, 1 vs. 0, True vs. False, X vs. !X,
etc. that things are absolute, there is no compromise, there is no
variety, there is no spectrum, no vibrance, no beauty... there can be
only on or off... all there are are opposites && we are they.  That
message said my bad is bad enough that I am all bad.  Then my duty to
the world... to improve it must be to destroy my ultimately evil self...
but if I'm so perfectly evil... why would I care about doing the world
the good of relieving it of me?  So then I'm not fundamentally evil &&
there are more than two ways about it && I am along a spectrum of
everything... just as is the world && the sun && the moon && the
universe... I am part of the possibility... part of the equation...
maybe in an insignificant && maybe a profound one... but if even at the
very bottom where I have no self left... that it has all been torn down
in hatred of self... I still have a desire then to help the world by
killing my worthless self to spare it... then I don't qualify anymore as
the worthless self.  It is a peculiar thing... so anyway there was quite
a bit of deep thinking && highness && lowness && delusions-of-grandeur
(which I get even when I'm not totally tripped out).  All of this led to
thoughts that I let the world down... let the world die... that I was
G-d... that I was able to imagine && remake time && reality... if not
for everyone, then at least me since I may be the only one there
constantly playing with myself in weird ways... according to ebb && flow
of something... then I thought that I was the Messiah.  I thought that
the Son && the Sun were importantly related but not as worshipping the
Sun or on Sunday or anything like that... rather the Earth spinning is
slowing down in space && there is miniscule resistance from space debris
that will inevitably slow the rotation... lose momentum... which would
cause the oval orbit to collapse in on the Sun cooking everyone
quickly... but then the Son of G-d is the one who must save && redeem.
He is the one who will run around the Equator... permanently... being
able to run freely on water or land... that the rotation of the Earth
must be maintained to save everyone... that the Son of Man would bleed
on Earth's Equator && the land && sea... the people && animals would be
purified by blood... their ailments healed.  They would know that the
Son was just a person like them... only equipped with the capacity to
keep running... to be the naked Equator runner that other people run
alongside in support of... that people realize is enabled to take up
that role of running && proclaiming the Word of the Almighty.  Maybe
there would be hecklers or hindrances... but nothing that couldn't be
overcome if it was what needed to be to save everyone.  So I took off
my clothes && ran down the street... in the rain... in December...
proclaiming Merry Christmas && Happy Chanukkah.  I ran && drank the
runoff rain water && ran.  People drove by && honked && laughed &&
waved.  I felt that it was what I had to do... it was my cross to bear
&& that I would carry it for the whole world... right then if that's
what was called of me.  But then some car drove by && someone inside
was very unhappy && called the police who came && picked me up && took
pictures of me && asked questions && took me to the hospital to
complete the detoxification process from the remaining drugs... for at
this time, I had not slept in I think 8 days.  My feet were damaged as
I had expected && even wanted I guess... but then they gave me a shot
&& some simple good food && a bed to rest && recover in.  I didn't mean
to burden anyone.  I thought I would certainly never wake from the
coming sleep so I wrote a letter apologizing to my Mommy && Sister &&
Brother for all the harm I caused.  I want not harm... how about
harmony?  Then I slept && woke && went home && slept more.  I still
felt horribly depressed && terrible but I stopped taking drugs &&
sobered up && tried to stop tripping out about Black && White && Good &&
Evil && my delusions-of-Messiahship... which I love && hate.  It makes
me feel important when I'm not.  It makes me very happy && very sad for
all reasons on both sides... that I suck, that I hate, that I'm
imperfect yet supposed to be perfect, hypocritical but supposed to be
consistent, uniform, reliable, pure, binary... but that I have to && I
get to be sacrificed to save everyone else.  The idea is intoxicating &&
glorious... but it is unrealistic.  It is like superstition... something
that can grab hold of your mind && make things appear that aren't there.
I'm no G-d... I'm no Satan... I'm no Messiah... even if I would be.  So,
there's this constant tension in our relationship because you have
taught me that whatever I do && think is perfect && is just what the
Messiah would && should do... that I don't know my role but I am the
tiny ant that is the center of the experiment && the powerless
reactor... that I still get to ponder deeply... but that I am && have
been && will remain a pawn... brushed around by the wind && the wave.
So I don't think you're G-d who created this universe && everything
there is in 7 days or 7 million years.  Likewise, I don't think I'm
the Messiah of anything but me.  Do you have any good reason to think
otherwise on either of those... because I have come to challenge that
whole idea.  The opposites... the harsh binary system... when it's not
just simulation && approximation of the real world... it doesn't
correspond to experience... the real world is vivid && dynamic &&
exists along all sorts of extreme continuum.  So the absoluteness of
Good && Bad don't permeate... aren't able to govern all things because
there is gray... there is hybrid... there is melting && mixing &&
blending && sharing && dynamism && vibrance... that cannot be captured
by such harsh extremes as only eternal Good or Bad.  It is hard to
have a normal life while thinking you can or will become the Messiah
&& Savior of all humanity whether you or they like it or not.  I imagine
it would have been similarly difficult if you really believed you had
created the cosmos... to relate well to other people.  I try && have
pretty limited success.  I'm too geeky && analytical && melodramatic.
I see things as opposites too harshly.  I judge && rejudge... constantly
everything.  So should I?  Do I do a good job?  I don't know.  I know
that there are a ton of things that I love && ideas that I have &&
ways I want to help && improve && play && celebrate life && existence
&& nature && love && opportunity && peace && freedom && purity &&
kindness && knowledge && truth && justice && so many things that can
become better.  I don't know the best way to do it but I imagine even
being lost on that thread is better than presuming to be a sufficient
sacrifice for yourself, much less anyone, much less everyone else.
That starts the infinite regression of non-existence because you can't
be the greatest or perfect at anything because you're limited so you
can't really be the next level down either for the same reason, ad
infinitum.  But then you still exist somewhere in there so the simple
rule applied inappropriately tries to jump the chasm of finite to
infinite by a regressive rule that doesn't apply across.  It's funny
how feedback loops which often seem to be infinite regressions bottom
out at different depths or unravel themselves in a weird paradoxical
space-time fabric.  Well so now I have a job again && am closer to
my family emotionally && taking time to contemplate who I am... who
I want to become && how to do that.  So part of that is someone who
doesn't abuse substances when I'm depressed for feeling worthless &&
as though I have nothing to contribute to the world or others' lives
because even at the bottom, I demonstrated to myself that I still do.
So it takes discretion... discernment.  I'm not the best example of
self-control ;) but I think that drugs are not really problems... but
when people claim they are problems, it's instead that they are excuses
for deeper problems (like depression)... which may make them more of a
particularly self-destructive (both to body && mind) && slow suicide
tool.  Other tools could be used to suicide more slowly or quickly...
more painfully... but I guess not as psychotically.  Some drugs do
provide great euphoria && elation on the way up but it is just a way
to tickle chemical receptors that we are made to be able to react to.
Some of those chemical balances are probably pretty destructive to
disturb... like losing a ton of sleep supposedly damages your ability
to store && recall infomation effectively because sleep is when most of
the automated maintenance of neurons is performed... where the... sorry
was interrupted by roommates coming home && chatting for a bit... uhh so
like that process has been said to be what enables conversion of short-
term to long-term memory... a necessary filing process of sorts.  I'm
not positive that's quite an adequate description of what's really going
on but... that would make pretty good sense.  So I'm just doin' my
thang... playing games && having fun && doing things the best I can.
I'm glad to have contact with you again Dad... I know you love me && I
love you too.  Our relationship is tough && weird...  but I think
technology && its potential... those are important in their own way.  I
like my experiences because they make me who I am... but I also struggle
against the notions that I'm more important than the average guy... like
my contemplation of eternity && opposites with rigid borders... those
make me a fool... make me think I'm great irrespective of fact.  It
feels like an empty self-promotion which I need to disown.  People are
just people... && I'm just a guy too.  It's not right to do that to a
kid... because there are Messianic stories in everything.  I just...  I
want to be smart && perceptive && deep && insightful... I want powerful
reasoning facilities && sufficient memory capacity... I want to know the
truth.  If I am really destined to be a Messianic figure...  well I
guess you have prepared me for it... but if I am not... which
practically && experientially, seems much more likely... well then I
want to know && act on that truth... && if the truth is it can't be
known but... I don't know.  It feels like undo weight... but maybe I
carried some from you... if I carried some away from you... && improved
you through it... maybe I can handle it... but I don't think things work
like that either.  I want to live life && play && celebrate &&
appreciate... but I feel removed from the framework so regularly...
evaluating a new context.  Positing gargantuan abuses && inequalities &&
faults... maybe all overblown.  So what do you think it is?  What is all
of it?  That's what happened to me.  Maybe it was inevitable... maybe it
will recur.  I hope to remember that I'm not a bad guy... I'm not
perfect at anything other than writing exceptions for universal rules.
No... that perfection... is too high a standard... that can't && mustn't
be met by regular people.  We wouldn't be a person then.  So we're just
people... just some guys with problems && sadness && frustrations.  I
don't know what you've been through... but I can assume it was rotten
enough that you might not be able to or choose to remember it.  You
don't have to tell me about anything that was particularly harsh for you
but... if you want to... I'll listen.  I'd like a healthy life && a
healthy relationship with my father.  I'm glad you're doing programming
&& online && learning HTML && maintaining a website.  Are you speaking?
If so, since when?  I'm curious about the not-speaking-period of your
life.  I don't want to pry but I would like to know whatever you think I
should know or would be interested in.  What happened && why did you
stop speaking?  What kept you from speaking?  How did that work out for
you?  What restored your tongue (if that has happened)?  Please
understand that I love my job && my friends && my life... I do want
improvement... but since visitation, I haven't been able to prepare for
your desire to have me drop everything to follow you.  Maybe I should
have before or should today.  I don't see that though.  I think you're
another guy like me with greatness && crap... so I'm being candid.  I
want to say that you have && do influence me substantially but I also
have developed on my own && it's way more appropriate for me to just
think of myself as an eccentric guy rather than the Messiah.  It's not
an accurate way to view things... but my perceptions have been
conflicted so it remains an ongoing struggle to say that I am sane && I
want to remain that way && I want to think fluidly && I want to flow...
with life && know myself as I am.  The more I learn about myself, the
more I know that I choose some things but very little.  I do what I
can just like everyone else... maybe I'm special or odd or peculiar...
but in a fine way... like along a spectrum of fineness (&& each little
part is fluid too) where things are not just Light && Dark.  I have
bared my deepest struggle to you... as I think we're intertwined over
this in a way that has && continues to harm us.  Let's be healthy.  I'm
sorry if I've been typing nonsense... trying to rally you for some cause
I don't even know... maybe a dream that neither of us nor anyone in our
family be crazy.  The choice to understand choice... to recover &&
actively mend... to address damage... to route around failure.  I have
no idea what to expect in response to this letter... but I guess I'm not
tiptoeing around you like I was before.  Now I know where I'm hurt &&
wounds need dressing... I'm working on them && am sharing that with
you because you're related && likely the author of my delusions.  Now I
feel embarassed like I have been talking as equals or talking down to
you when I shouldn't.  I don't mean to disrespect you as a man or my
father... but I also must stand for what I choose to && an important
component of that is being in charge of my own life && making the best
decisions I can.  I guess I need to sleep on this letter && probably
edit some more tomorrow.  I love you, Dad.

4B76NG6 - ok so reading a bit more again... there's a purity to
simplicity... avoidance of the hustle && bustle... rebirth, a late
but necessary childhood... growing period where the child learns
to speak && develops discernment as well as communication.  So are you
just a big kid?  Are you just shaking adult responsibility?  Is that
something you have never grasped because much bigger deeper problems
clogged the way?

4B7EEuC - Maybe using e-mail or technology ruins the fun.  Maybe "more"
actually is worse && "less" is better.  I appreciate your "why-fors",
Dad.  I don't mean to condescend or discount your reasons for aversion
to the technology speed cycle... the boasting rights, etc..  It can be
seen either way.  What MUST I do today?
  * nothing much
What might I do today if I feel like it?
  * check e-mail && voicemail && U.S. mail && pager && whatever else

  They can be convenient && employed at your discretion.  They can
provide utility as did your Model 540.  I respect your opinion &&
decision either way && can totally see your perspective that all the
gadgets are too much && un-free peoples' lives.  That does happen
enough to make such generalizations.  I like e-mail && useful new
technologies.  I usually use them more for personal communication than
work-related.  If you have an ISP account now && an e-mail address, I'd
think it would be cool for you to check out website URL's I send or
Google for stuff if you want to know more or we could start using e-mail
to communicate && see if you like it if / when you're ever ready to
consider doing so.  I also don't want to disturb or "fix" your long-
standing && happy simple lifestyle if there's no need for that.

  Ah... the end questions... so I've pretty well covered my physical &&
mental whereabouts for the past year.

  At work, I've mostly been maintaining a lot of game data, writing
manipulation tools, providing uniquely useful interactive interfaces to
the data, && then using my tools to tune game parameters to improve play
properties.  Otherwise, I've been playing all the fun video games that
have come out recently && been reading fiction && hanging out with my
friends && roommates when I have time.

  In life, almost everything is good right now.

  I guess the not-so-good parts are not having a girlfriend, having way
too much creditcard && other debt to feel comfortable, && not having a
fast motorcycle.

  My plans for the future... are to continue making video games &&
playing && motorcycling && snowboarding && learning && enjoying the fun
of life.  I have a whole bunch of different software utilities &&
projects I'd like to write which could take decades to accomplish if
they remain worth doing to me && are not done by someone else in the
meantime.  I aim to get out of debt && stop borrowing entirely && to
cultivate friendships && relationships.  I hope to find a wife someday.
Maybe I'll move to Nippon too.  We'll see.

  Wants?  Long for?  Goals?  Like to see come to pass (or be)?  Umm I
guess I just want to live && let live.  I want people to be free && be
smart && be challenged to become as great as they can && want to be.
I want global peace && cooperation.  I want great && reliable && Free
&& Open software to enable vast improvements in almost every area.  I'd
like to see the whole world get closer && happier && smarter.

  Thanks again for your letter, Dad.  I look forward to the next one.

EOF.  Your turn.  =)

Love,
-Pip
