# HBRL9O6d: HTTPS://UnderstandMyself.Com evalU8ion results (pasted && slightly reformatted) for PipStuart <Pip@CPAN.Org>;
The Big Five Aspects Scale

You have just completed assessing yourself with 100 phrases. Our systems have compared your-self-ratings to those of thousands of other people.
You are being compared to men and women of all ages. This means that if you are young, your scores on neuroticism will be higher and on agreeableness
and conscientiousness will be lower than if you were compared to people of your own age (with the reverse being true for older individuals).
For men, their scores on agreeableness will be higher and on neuroticism will be lower than if they were just being compared to men. We decided to
make the comparisons simple, so that you know where you stand in comparison to the typical person (with age and sex regarded as irrelevant).

Here are your results: You will see below where you stand in comparison to others in the general population on the major traits and their aspects:

  Agreeableness      54% :       Compassion 91%  and   9% Politeness
  Conscientiousness  41% :  Industriousness 50%  and  36% Orderliness
  Extraversion       69% :       Enthusiasm 59%  and  73% Assertiveness
  Neuroticism        24% :       Withdrawal 36%  and  17% Volatility
  Open to Experience 96% :        Intellect 96%  and  87% Openness

Remember that each personality trait and aspect (and your relative position with respect to them) has advantages and disadvantages. It is for that
reason that variation exists in the human population: there is a niche for each personality configuration. Much of what constitutes success in
life is therefore the consequence of finding the place in relationships, work and personal commitment that corresponds to your unique personality
structure. Good luck with your expanded self-understanding!

Note also that if you find that the descriptions harsher than you might consider appropriate this may mean that you were more self-critical than
necessary when completing the questions (remember, the results are based on your own self-report, compared to that of others). This can occur
if you were feeling temporarily or chronically unhappy or anxious, or hungry, angry or judgmental when you completed the questions.

Agreeableness: Typical

You are typical or average in agreeableness, which is the primary dimension of Interpersonal interaction in the Big Five personality trait scientific
model. Agreeableness has two aspects: compassion and politeness, which will be explained separately. Agreeableness is a very complex trait, with marked
positive and negative elements all along its distribution. Because of this, higher scores and lower scores need to be explained at the same time.

People high in agreeableness are nice: compliant, nurturing, kind, naively trusting and conciliatory. However, because of their tendency to avoid
conflict, they often dissemble and hide what they think. People low in agreeableness are not so nice: stubborn, dominant, harsh, skeptical, competitive
and, in the extreme, even predatory. However, they tend to be straightforward, even blunt, so you know where they stand.

Your score puts you at the 54th percentile for agreeableness. If you were one of 100 people in a room, you would be more agreeable than 54 of them and
less agreeable than 45 of them.

Agreeableness 54th percentile

You are more agreeable than 54 of 100 people.

People with typical levels of agreeableness are seen by others as somewhat cooperative, warm and considerate. They look for and even sometimes see the
best in others, and are reasonably interpersonally tolerant (an attitude that is much valued by agreeable people). They are no more sensitive than
average to seeing someone’s feelings get hurt and, although sometimes concerned about the emotional state of others, don’t always prefer peace and
harmony to conflict. They strike a good balance between submissiveness and dominance.

People with average levels of agreeableness are somewhat forgiving, accepting, flexible, gentle and patient. They sometimes feel pity for those who are
excluded, punished or defeated. However, they are less likely than highly agreeable people to be taken advantage of by disagreeable people or those with
criminal or predatory intent. They can be skeptical. They believe in cooperation, but also feel that competition, with its losers and winners, has its
valid place. They are less likely to lose arguments (and will not typically avoid discussion) with less agreeable people. They can be quite good at
bargaining for themselves, and at negotiating for more recognition or power. They are likely to have somewhat higher salaries and earn more money, in
consequence. This may mean they are less likely to suffer from resentment or to harbour invisible anger, although this tendency may be increased, if
they are high in neuroticism. In addition, because of their tendency to engage in conflict, when necessary, typically agreeable people are less prone to
sacrifice medium- to long-term stability and function for the sake of short-term peace. This can mean that problems that should be solved in the present
are often solved, and do not accumulate counterproductively across time.

Women are higher in agreeableness than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 61.5. For men it is 38.5. The fact
that men are lower in agreeableness than women helps explain their much higher rates of criminal incarceration (90% male). The primary difference
between criminals and non-criminals is disagreeableness. If the typical criminal is more disagreeable than 98% of people in the general population, then
almost all those criminals will be male. This difference in agreeableness between men and women is largest in countries such as Norway and Sweden, where
the most has been done to ensure equality of outcome between the sexes. This provides strong evidence that biological factors rather than environment
and learning account for the dissimilarity.

Agreeableness, per se, is not strongly associated with political liberalism or conservatism, but this is because the aspects of agreeableness predict
such political belief in opposite ways, and cancel each other out. Liberals are higher in aspect compassion, and conservatives in aspect politeness.
However, alliance with the category of belief that has come to be known as politically correct is strongly predicted by agreeableness (particularly
compassion). What this appears to mean is that agreeable people strongly identify with those they deem oppressed, seeing them, essentially, as exploited
infants, and demonize those they see as oppressors, seeing them as cruel, heartless predators.

There are large differences between men and women in terms of spontaneous interest, and these also appear associated with agreeableness. Agreeable
people, caring as they do for others, are more likely to enter professions associated with people, such as teaching and nursing, which are dominated by
women. This is true even in the Scandinavian countries, where attempts to produce gender-equal societies has reached a maximum. Disagreeable people, by
contrast, appear to prefer systematizing over empathizing, and are more interested in things – machines and technology. In consequence, professions
such as engineering and trades associated with construction and machinery tend to be dominated by relatively disagreeable men.

Agreeableness has two aspects: compassion and politeness.

Compassion: Very High

You are very high in compassion, which is one aspect of Agreeableness. Your score puts you at the 91st percentile for compassion. If you were one of 100
people in a room, you would be more compassionate than 91 of them and less compassionate than 8 of them.

Very compassionate people are primarily interested in the problems of other people, and other living things. They are strikingly concerned about helping
other people avoid negative emotion. They constantly make time and do kind things for other, even when doing so interferes with fulfilling their own
needs and interests. They have a very soft side. Other people consider them sympathetic and nice, and will turn to them remarkably often for a listening
ear. They are very empathetic and caring. However, because they are so other-oriented, they find it remarkably difficult to negotiate on their own
behalf, and may not get what they deserve (for their hard work, for example). This can lead to intense resentment.

Compassion 91st percentile

You are more compassionate than 91 of 100 people.

Those who are liberal, politically, score somewhat higher in compassion than conservatives.

Women are also higher in compassion than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 61. For men it is 39.

Politeness: Very Low

You are very low in politeness, which is one aspect of Agreeableness. Your score puts you at the 9th percentile for politeness. If you were one of 100
people in a room, you would be less polite than 90 of them and more polite than 9 of them.

People who are very low in politeness are not at all deferential to authority – nor are they obedient. They can be respectful, grudgingly, but only to
people who clearly deserve and demand it, and they are very markedly willing to push back when challenged. They are not uncomfortable confronting other
people – in fact, they may enjoy it. People very low in politeness are not motivated to avoid conflict, or to steer clear of conflict or fights. They
may find themselves frequently in trouble with authority, in consequence. Their skepticism can make it very difficult for them to find a place in the
middle or lower in hierarchies of power and dominance. They tend very strongly to be dominant, rather than submissive (particularly if they are also low
in neuroticism).

Politeness 9th percentile

You are less polite than 90 of 100 people.

Those who are liberal, politically, score somewhat lower in politeness than conservatives (the opposite pattern is seen with compassion).

Women are higher in politeness than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 59. For men it is 41.

Conscientiousness: Typical or Average

You are typical or average in conscientiousness, which is the primary dimension of dutiful achievement in the Big Five personality trait scientific
model. Conscientiousness is a measure of obligation, attention to detail, hard work, persistence, cleanliness, efficiency and adherence to rules,
standards and processes. Conscientious people implement their plans and establish and maintain order.

Your score puts you at the 41st percentile for conscientiousness. If you were one of 100 people in a room, you would be more conscientious than 41 of
them and less conscientious than 58 of them.

People of average conscientious levels generally do their duty, although they are not sloggers. They are reliable, but waste some of their time and have
some proclivity to procrastinate (particularly if they are also above average in neuroticism). Most of the time, however, a person of average
conscientiousness will deliver what he or she promises, and usually close to or on time and schedule. They are reasonably decisive, neat, organized, future-
oriented, and reliable. They can maintain focus, but have some trouble fighting off distraction.

Conscientiousness 41st percentile

You are more conscientious than 41 of 100 people.

Typically conscientious people tend to obtain more moderate grades in academic settings (unless they are also highly intelligent). They make reasonably
competent administrators and managers. Their performance in such situations would be improved by more diligence and focus, and through the use of
careful scheduling. They mildly prefer to have everything in its proper place, but are by no means obsessed with detail.

Typically conscientious people are not particularly prone to guilt (although they may let things slide to the point where they have something to feel
guilty about), and they are relatively free of shame, self-disgust and self-contempt.

Individuals who are typically conscientious do not react too negatively to failure. They can let themselves off the hook, and tend not to be too
judgmental about their own faults, or those of others. They will suffer some shame and guilt when unemployed or otherwise unoccupied, particularly when
that occurs through no fault of their own. People of average conscientiousness are reasonably committed to personal responsibility, but also believe
that there is more to life than diligence, orderliness and duty. They think that those who work hard should and usually will be rewarded, but also note
that luck and chance play their role. They are not excessively preoccupied with hygiene, moral purity or achievement, and are unlikely to be micro-
managers or over-controlling.

People with typical levels of conscientiousness are no more likely to be political conservatives or liberals (although they will tilt towards the former
if low in openness and the latter if high).

Women are very slightly more conscientious than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 51.5. For men it is 49.5.

Conscientiousness has two aspects: industriousness and orderliness.

Industriousness: Typical or Average

You are typical or average in industriousness, which is one aspect of conscientiousness. Your score puts you at the 50th percentile for industriousness.
If you were one of 100 people in a room, you would be more industrious than 50 of them and less industrious than 49 of them.

People of average industriousness are somewhat likely to be successful in school and in administrative and managerial positions (particularly if they
are intelligent). They do not live to work, however, and do not always have to be doing something useful. They like their leisure time. Typically, they
will do their duty, but they can put things off, and sometimes mess them up. Usually, but not always, they finish what they start, and they do it more
or less on schedule, with some exceptions. They are no more concerned than average with efficiency or savings. They can focus on the task on hand, when
there are high levels of motivation or pressure, but often find themselves distracted by something more entertaining, or interesting, or worrisome.

Industriousness 50th percentile

You are more industrious than 50 of 100 people.

People of average industriousness are not particularly judgemental to themselves or others. They like to live and let live. They are somewhat likely to
believe that people fail because they don’t apply themselves or work hard enough, but know that other considerations play a role. They tend to feel
guilty, but not to an overwhelming degree, if they do not do their duty. They can, however, find themselves in a guilty position because they failed to
perform a task on time or properly.

Those who are liberal and those who are conservatives appear equally industrious.

Men are slightly more industrious than women. The mean percentile for men in a general population (women and men) is 51.5. For women it is 49.5.

Orderliness: Moderately Low

You are moderately low in orderliness, which is one aspect of conscientiousness. Your score puts you at the 36th percentile for orderliness. If you were
one of 100 people in a room, you would be less orderly than 63 of them and more orderly than 36 of them.

People moderately low in orderliness are neither disturbed nor disgusted by mess and chaos. They tend simply not to notice such things. They see the
world in shades of grey, rather than black and white, and are non-judgmental in their attitudes toward themselves and others. They rarely use schedules,
list, or routines and, even if they plan, tend not to implement those plans, preferring to take things as they come, and let chance determine the
outcome. They are not oriented toward detail and take neither rules nor procedures too seriously.

Orderliness 36th percentile

You are less orderly than 63 of 100 people.

People who are moderately low in orderliness care less than average for routine and predictability. Their schedules are loose and disruption doesn’t
bother them. They require almost constant reminder and supervision to maintain attention and focus, and are easily distracted. They can, however,
tolerate the mess, disruption and intervening periods of chaos that may accompany creative endeavour.

Those who are below average in orderliness are less likely to be political conservatives. Orderliness is the second-best predictor of conservatism,
after openness to experience.

Women are more orderly than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 54.5. For men it is 45.5. This may account for
some of the trouble in relation to housework between women and men. Since women are, on average, more orderly, household disorder will trigger disgust
and discomfort in them faster. This may happen with sufficient frequency so they end up doing a disproportionate share of such work (even though if they
waited a bit longer their less orderly partners, often men, might end up equally troubled and motivated to fix the problem). Orderly people are more
likely to have items such as event calendars, drawer organizers, laundry baskets, irons and ironing boards in their immediate environments.

Extraversion: Moderately High

You are moderately high in extraversion, which is the primary dimension of positive emotion in the Big Five personality trait scientific model.
Extraversion is a measure of general sensitivity to positive emotions such as hope, joy, anticipation and approach, particularly in social situations.

Your score puts you at the 69th percentile for extraversion. If you were one of 100 people in a room, you would be more extraverted than 69 of them and
less extraverted than 30 of them.

People with moderately high levels of extraversion are quite enthusiastic, talkative, assertive in social situations, and gregarious. They are often
energized by social contact, and crave it. They typically like to plan parties, tell jokes, make people laugh and participate in community activities.
They are somewhat more likely to have positive memories of the past, above-average levels of current self-esteem (particularly if they are low in
neuroticism), and to feel optimism about the future.

Extraversion 69th percentile

You are more extraverted than 69 of 100 people.

People who are moderately extraverted don’t often keep things to themselves, tending instead to share what they are thinking with everyone. They are
self-disclosing (particularly if also high in neuroticism) and they warm fairly rapidly to other people. They are among the first to speak in meetings.
They can be captivating and convincing. They are likely to be among the first to act in an ambiguous situation.

People who are moderately high in extraversion make more enthusiastic employees, and tend to be well-suited to jobs involving sales, persuasion, work in
groups and public speaking (particularly, once again, if they are low in neuroticism). They are somewhat less suited to occupations that require a lot
of isolated work (such as computer programming or accounting).

People moderately high in extraversion have a tendency to be impulsive, particularly when it comes to having fun in social situations. They are somewhat
more likely to sacrifice the future to the present, when something social or group-oriented beckons. It can be difficult for them to be alone and to
study and work. They can find themselves distracted by opportunities to chat, joke and socialize. This is particularly the case if they are also low in
conscientiousness. When individuals are extraverted and conscientious, they are more productive than if they are introverted and conscientious. However,
when they are introverted and unconscientious, they are more productive than they are when they are extroverted and unconscientious.

People moderately high in extraversion are comparatively more dominant in social situations, particularly if they are also low in agreeableness. Less
agreeable extraverts tend to be self-centered – something that can be made worse if they are also low in conscientiousness.

Those who are politically liberal are slightly less extraverted than conservatives.

Women are slightly more extraverted than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 52. For men it is 48.

Extraversion has two aspects: Enthusiasm and Assertiveness.

Enthusiasm: Typical or Average

You are typical or average in enthusiasm, which is one aspect of extraversion. Your score puts you at the 59th percentile for enthusiasm. If you were
one of 100 people in a room, you would be more enthusiastic than 59 of them and less enthusiastic than 40 of them.

Individuals who are average in enthusiasm have their excitable moments, are sometimes happy, and are reasonably easy to get to know, but they are
essentially moderate in their positive emotion. They will talk about things or people they find particularly interesting, but tend to keep more quiet,
otherwise. They laugh and joke, but not excessively. They don’t crave the spotlight. They enjoy parties, in moderation, and generally like to be
around people, but they can spend time alone. They don’t warm up immediately to others, particularly in groups, and they can keep their own affairs
private. They like excitement, but only in moderate doses. They are moderately positive about the past and future.

Enthusiasm 59th percentile

You are more enthusiastic than 59 of 100 people.

Enthusiasm is not strongly associated with political preference, either conservative or liberal.

Women are higher in enthusiasm than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 55. For men it is 45.

Assertiveness: Moderately High

You are moderately high in assertiveness, which is one aspect of extraversion. Your score puts you at the 73rd percentile for assertiveness. If you were
one of 100 people in a room, you would be more assertive than 73 of them and less assertive than 26 of them.

Moderately assertive people are more “take charge” types. They put their own opinions forward, and are somewhat likely to dominate and control
social situations. They can be influential and captivating. They have the communication style that is more often associated with leadership. This is
good when they are knowledgeable, competent and able, but less good when they aren’t. Moderately assertive people tend to be more action-oriented.
They are less likely to wait for others to lead the way. Now and then they might be impulsive, in consequence, acting too quickly, without thinking.

Assertiveness 73rd percentile

You are more assertive than 73 of 100 people.

Liberals tend to be slightly less assertive than conservatives.

Women are slightly less assertive than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 48. For men it is 52.

Neuroticism: Moderately Low

You are moderately low in neuroticism, which is the primary dimension of negative emotion in the Big Five personality trait scientific model.
Neuroticism is a measure of general sensitivity to negative emotions such as pain, sadness, irritable or defensive anger, fear and anxiety.

Your score puts you at the 24th percentile for neuroticism. If you were one of 100 people in a room, you would be lower in neuroticism than 75 of them
and higher in neuroticism than 24 of them.

People with moderately low levels of neuroticism tend not to focus on the negative elements, anxieties and uncertainties of the past, present and
future. They can have periods of time where they are unhappy, anxious and irritable, particularly when facing a serious, sustained problem, but they
generally cope well, don’t worry too much, and recover comparatively quickly when stressed. They’re pretty good at keeping their head in a storm,
and they tend not to mountains out of molehills.

Neuroticism 24th percentile

You are lower in neuroticism than 75 of 100 people.

They tend to have higher than average levels of self-esteem, particularly when they are also average or above average in extraversion. They are at
relatively low risk for developing anxiety disorders and depression (again, particularly if average or above in extraversion).

When good things happen to them, people with moderately low levels of neuroticism can accept it, without wondering if they deserved it. They generally
tend to be satisfied with their relationships and careers. Overall, they are quite tolerant of stress, and can accept failure and setbacks as part of
life. Moderately low levels of neuroticism are associated with less concern about mental and physical health, fewer physician and emergency room visits,
and a lower than average degree of absenteeism at work and at school (unless accompanied by very low levels of conscientiousness).

People with moderately low levels of neuroticism can handle risk better without becoming unduly concerned. They are less concerned with security, and
can handle recreational, career, financial and social situations where the possibility of loss is higher. This makes it easier for them to consider as
well as implement career changes and other transformations that could enhance their lives.

Neuroticism is not a powerful predictor of political belief, either conservative or liberal.

Females tend to be higher in neuroticism than males. The typical woman is higher in neuroticism than 60% of the general population of men and women
combined. In part, this may be why women report more unhappiness in their relationships, at work, in school and with their health than men, on average,
and why women initiate 70% of all divorces. This difference in neuroticism between men and women appears to emerge at puberty. It is largest in
countries such as Norway and Sweden, where the most has been done to ensure equality of outcome between the sexes. This provides strong evidence that
biological factors rather than environment and learning account for the dissimilarity.

Trait neuroticism is made up of the aspects withdrawal and volatility.

Withdrawal: Moderately Low

You are moderately low in withdrawal, which is one aspect of neuroticism. Your score puts you at the 36th percentile for withdrawal. If you were one of
100 people in a room, you would be lower in withdrawal than 63 of them and higher in withdrawal than 36 of them.

Individuals moderately low in withdrawal tend not to suffer from nor be impeded by anticipatory anxiety. They can handle new, uncertain, unexpected,
threatening or complex situations quite well. They are not more likely to avoid or withdraw in the face of the unknown and unexpected.

People with moderately low levels of withdrawal occasionally feel sad, lonesome, disappointed and grief-stricken, but not too deeply, and not for too
long. They experience lower than normal levels of doubt and worry, embarrassment, self-consciousness and discouragement in the face of threat and
punishment. They are not particularly sensitive nor worried about social rejection, and don’t easily feel hurt or threatened. Even when hurt,
frightened, or anxious, they recover with relative ease and speed. People with moderately low levels of withdrawal are not particularly concerned that
something bad is going to happen. Technically, withdrawal has been associated with activity in the brain systems that regulate passive avoidance.

Withdrawal 36th percentile

You are lower in withdrawal than 63 of 100 people.

Those who are liberal, politically, are slightly higher in withdrawal than conservatives.

Women are higher in withdrawal than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 60. For men it is 40.

Volatility: Low

You are low in volatility, which is one aspect of neuroticism. Your score puts you at the 17th percentile for volatility. If you were one of 100 people
in a room, you would be less volatile than 82 of them and more volatile than 17 of them.

Individuals low in volatility are stable and predictable in their moods. They are not irritable, and feel much less disappointment, frustration, pain
and loneliness. People find them easy to get along with and can often relax around them. They rarely express their frustration, disappointment and
irritability and appear reasonable when they do so. Even on the rare occasions they become stirred up, upset, angry or irritated, they calm down
quickly. They are much less argumentative than average and rarely lose their composure.

If thoroughly provoked in a dispute, a person of low volatility may react in kind (particularly if also low in agreeableness). However, such people
remain calm and unperturbed, even when stressed. Volatile people tend to get upset if something bad does happen, while people high in withdrawal (the
other aspect of neuroticism) tend to be concerned that something bad might happen. Technically, volatility has been associated with activity in the
brain systems that regulate fight, flight or freeze.

Volatility 17th percentile

You are less volatile than 82 of 100 people.

Volatility is not strongly related to political preference, either liberal or conservative.

Women are higher in volatility than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 57.5. For men it is 42.5.

Openness to Experience: Exceptionally High

You are exceptionally high in openness to experience, which is the primary dimension of creativity, artistic interest and intelligence (particularly
verbal intelligence) in the Big Five personality trait scientific model. Openness to experience is a measure of interest in novelty, art, literature,
abstract thinking, philosophy as well as sensitivity to aesthetic emotions and beauty.

Your score puts you at the 96th percentile for openness to experience. If you were one of 100 people in a room, you would be higher in openness to
experience than 96 of them and lower in openness to experience than 3 of them.

People with exceptionally high levels of openness to experience are almost always characterized by others as extremely smart, creative, exploratory,
intelligent and visionary. They are extremely interested in learning, and are constantly acquiring new abilities and skills. They are extremely
curious and exploratory. They are exceptionally interested in abstract thinking, philosophy, and the meaning of belief systems and ideologies. They
live for cultural events such as movies, concerts, dance recitals, plays, poetry readings, gallery openings and art shows. They are very likely to
enjoy writing (or even to be driven to write). They enjoy complex, abstract ideas and deeply love to confront and solve complex, abstract and multi-
dimensional problems.

Openness to Experience 96th percentile

You are higher in openness to experience than 96 of 100 people.

They are almost always prolific readers, and are interested in a vast range of topics. They have an exceptionally broad and deep vocabulary. They can
think and learn remarkably quickly. They are unusually proficient at formulating new ideas, and can be exceptionally articulate (particularly if average
or above in extraversion). People exceptionally high in openness can see old things in remarkable ways. They can think outside of the box. When they
hear or come up with an idea, many other ideas are usually triggered. They can formulate any single problem in an exceptionally diverse range of ways,
and can generate a tremendously large number of problem-solving solutions. They will constantly seek change, often to make things better, but also just
for the sake of change.

People who are exceptionally high in openness to experience are poorly adapted to and do not do well in situations or occupations that are routinized
and predictable. They fit badly at the bottom of hierarchies. They are unusually ill-suited to entry-level, repetitive, rote positions, because they are
always thinking up new ways to do things, and such ideas are seldom welcome from someone at the bottom. They are extremely radical thinkers. They shake
things up, particularly if they are also disagreeable and assertive. They are likely to be revolutionary rebels (particularly if average or below in
conscientiousness).

Individuals exceptionally high in openness to experience are entrepreneurial in spirit, as well as smart and creative. They can be overwhelmingly
interested in creating new ventures, sometimes for profit, sometimes for curiosity, and sometimes for personal transformation. Exceptionally high levels
of openness to experience appear necessary to the formation and leadership of business and other forms of complex organization, although
conscientiousness appears required for the attention to detail and process management that such organizations also always need.

Because people who are exceptionally high in openness to experience are interested in absolutely everything, they can find it hard to settle on a single
path in life, to specialize to a necessary degree, and to create an integrated identity. This is particularly dangerous if they are above average in
neuroticism and/or below average in conscientiousness. People characterized by the combination of high openness to experience and high neuroticism
constantly undermine their own convictions and beliefs by incessant questioning and make themselves lost and anxious. Open, unconscientious people tend
to be “under-achievers” (particularly if also above average in neuroticism). Such people appear to have the capability to succeed, can learn
quickly, and are creative, but they seldom implement their ideas.

Openness to experience is the dimension that best predicts political allegiance (with conscientiousness, particularly the aspect of orderliness, coming
in at second place). Those who are liberal, politically, are very much more likely to be high in openness to experience than conservatives.

Women and men differ very little in openness to experience at the trait level, although there are differences in the aspect levels.

Trait openness to experience is made up of the aspects of intellect and openness.

Intellect: Exceptionally High

Note: Do not confuse the personality aspect of Intellect with IQ. Intellect is a measure of interest in abstract ideas, essentially, while IQ is a
      measure of processing speed, verbal ability, working memory, and problem solving capacity, and is better measured with a formal IQ test. It is
      perfectly possible to have a high IQ and a low score on the personality trait of Intellect (or the reverse).

You are exceptionally high in intellect, which is one aspect of openness to experience. Your score puts you at the 96th percentile for intellect. If you
were one of 100 people in a room, you would be higher in intellect than 96 of them and lower in intellect than 3 of them.

People exceptionally high in intellect are obsessed by engaging with ideas and abstract concepts. They require exposure to novel information,
particularly when it is complex and sophisticated. They are extremely curious and exploratory, and actively need to find, tackle and solve challenging
problems. They will constantly seek out and initiate issue-oriented discussions, and tend to compulsively read, think about and discuss idea-centered
books (generally non-fiction). They are notably articulate, and can formulate ideas very clearly and exceptionally quickly (particularly if average or
higher in extraversion). They have a much broader and wider vocabulary, and continually require themselves to learn new things. People exceptionally
high in intellect will continually find and generate novel, creative concepts and voluntarily search for and adapt exceptionally well to new experience
and situations.

Intellect 96th percentile

You are higher in intellect than 96 of 100 people.

People exceptionally high in intellect find complex, rapidly changing occupations asbolutely necessary and will excel at them (particularly if they are
also high in conscientiousness and low in neuroticism). However, they are not at all suited to stable, straightforward and more traditional occupations,
where the rules don't change, and will experience continual periods of boredom and intolerable levels of frustration in such positions. They are much
more suited to entrepreneurial/creative enterprises (particularly if also high in the openness aspect of Opennes to Experience).

Liberals are higher in intellect than conservatives (although the biggest difference between the two is openness to experience at the trait level).

Women are lower than men in intellect (although not in IQ). This is probably a difference in interest: people high in intellect, compared to openness,
are more likely to prefer the sciences to the arts. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 45. For men it is 55.

Openness: High

You are high in openness, which is one aspect of openness to experience. Your score puts you at the 87th percentile for openness. If you were one of 100
people in a room, you would be higher in openness than 87 of them and lower in openness than 12 of them.

The closest synonym for openness (rather than openness to experience, which encompasses openness and intellect) is creativity. Highly open, creative
people love beauty. They need an outlet for their creative ability, or they have difficulty thriving. They want to be surrounded by art or beautiful
crafts. They are sensitive to color and architectural form. They like to collect things. They are imaginative, and like to daydream and reflect on
things. They are affected comparatively deeply by music, often of many genres, and may be musical or artistic themselves (both of these are rare in the
general population). They can get thoroughly immersed in a book, or a movie, or in their own thoughts, and become somewhat oblivious to the outside
world. They respond strongly to beauty, creativity and art.

Openness 87th percentile

You are higher in openness than 87 of 100 people.

Highly open, creative people can be impractical and flighty, however (particularly if low in conscientiousness). It can be extremely difficult to
transform creativity into money, or into a career. High levels of openness are, furthermore, necessary for entrepreneurial success, and often prove
useful at the top of hierarchies, even in very conservative occupations such as banking, accounting and law, which need creative people in leadership
positions to provide new vision and direction.

Liberals are higher in openness than conservatives (although the biggest difference between the two is openness to experience, at the trait level).

Women are higher in openness than men. The mean percentile for women in a general population (women and men) is 56.5. For men it is 44.5.
